<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Administratief akkoord tussen de wederzijdse bevoegde autoriteiten inzake samenwerking tussen de Landbouwhogeschool in Wageningen en de Brawijaya Universiteit te Malang

### Nr.  I  

Jakarta, December 3, 1979 No. 17236 Subject: Cooperative relationship between the Brawijaya University and the Agricultural University of Wageningen Your Excellency, I have the honour to inform you that the Cooperative Relationship between the Brawijaya University in Malang and the Agricultural University of Wageningen (hereafter called “the project”) has been approved by the Netherlands Minister for Development Cooperation. The outlines of the Project as well as the respective contributions are laid down in the Letter of Intent (May 1979) entered into by the aforesaid universities. Above-mentioned Letter of Intent includes a description of the activities covered by the Project during the coming three years. The contents of the Letter of Intent including its Plan of Operation has the approval of the Sekretariat Negara (No. 6615/Set. Kab/LN/P/10/1979). The Netherlands personnel to the Project shall enjoy the privileges, immunities and facilities described in Article 4 of the Agreement on Technical Cooperation between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Indonesia of April 3, 1964. The provisions of Article 5 of the said Agreement shall be applicable to the importation and the exportation of the Netherlands equipment and the materials for the Project. If the foregoing is acceptable to you, I have the honour to propose that this letter and your Excellency's reply concurring therein shall constitute an Administrative Arrangement within the terms of aforesaid Agreement, which shall enter into force on the date of your Excellency's reply and shall expire on the date on which the Project has been completed in conformity with the Project documents. Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration. (sd.) P. A. E. RENARDEL DE LAVALETTE P. A. E. Renardel de Lavalette Ambassador  *His Excellency*   *Dr. Daoed Joesoef*   *Minister of Education and Culture*   *Jl. Jenderal Sudirman - Senayan*   *Jakarta*    

####Letter of Intent for an Agreement for Cooperation

Letter of Intent for a long-term multilateral Cooperative Relationship (samenwerkingsovereenkomst) between the Universitas Brawijaya (Unibraw) in Malang and the Agricultural University of Wageningen (LHW), to be implemented within the Programme for University Projects of Development Cooperation (PUO) of the Netherlands University Foundation for International Cooperation (NUFFIC).  

### 1  

####Background information

Based on a, since 1976 existing, bilateral project on crop production and plant protection (LHW 14) the Universitas Brawijaya requested LHW to assist with the upgrading of staff in animal husbandry and soil science. From January 1st onwards all PUO activities have to be organized in long-term interuniversity cooperation links. The LHW submitted in 1977 a proposal to the NUFFIC to start a cooperative link with the Unibraw. In December 1977 LHW obtained information from the NUFFIC that the Netherlands Minister for Development Cooperation had decided that such a relationship could be established and that funds had been earmarked to cover the cost of the Programme of Cooperation. Because of the limitation of the amount available, the Agreement for Cooperation is at present confined to only one Dutch University, the Agricultural University of Wageningen. The agreement however is worded in such a way that in the future more Dutch partners can be added. The bilateral link therefore can be broadened to a multilateral one. New partners will have to cosign the Agreement for Cooperation between Unibraw and LHW. More background information can be found in the attached “plans extending over a number of years” (meerjarenplannen) . <sup> 1)  [Red: Niet opgenomen.]  </sup>  

### 2  

####Aims and objectives

In accordance with the NUFFIC Programme for University Projects of Development Cooperation (PUO) the aim of the Cooperative link is to strengthen the Universitas Brawijaya and (in conjunction with other related Indonesian universities) the higher education system in Indonesia in general, focusing on its contribution to development and self-reliance in society, with special attention for the deprived and poorest sections of the Indonesian people. The aim of self-reliance, as applied to Unibraw itself, means that upgrading of Unibraw-staff in the field of education and research will have a high priority. The main instrument lies in the provision of Dutch university staff to the Universitas Brawijaya. It will be possible to send Unibraw-staff to the Netherlands and other countries for upgrading courses for periods from three to twelve months. If necessary for the Programma of Cooperation equipment can be purchased from Dutch Government funds, in addition to Unibraw's own material contribution. In the long run the Cooperative Link envisages a gradual withdrawal and phasing out of the Dutch upgrading contribution, leaving behind a well trained and equipped Indonesian staff. Unibraw will make the necessary arrangements for its staffmembers to participate in the Programme of Cooperation. Each project plan of operations will specify the contribution of all partners to the implementation of the project. Clear arrangements will be made for the selection procedure of the Dutch staff to be sent to Indonesia and of the Unibraw staff to be upgraded in the programme. If need arises the possibility of undertaking such additional activities as mentioned in the PUO-regulations (appendix A)can be explored in joint consultation. The first phase (three years) of the Programme of Cooperation will cover the following projects: 

- Development of education in animal husbandry at the Faculty of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries of the Universitas Brawijaya.  

- Development of education in soil science at the Faculty of Agriculture of the Universitas Brawijaya.    

### 3  

####Programme implementation

a. General The partner universities Unibraw and LHW, undertake to execute the Programme of Cooperation in compliance with the aims, rules and regulations that apply, firstly at governmental level, secondly for the PUO-programme for university projects of development cooperation (see appendix A) and thirdly as agreed upon in the detailed plans of operation for each project. Any commitments made in the signed plans of operation for specific activities will be binding; changes therein can only be made in mutual agreement. In general the activities included in the Programme of Cooperation will be executed in project form. A project is a clearly defined and limited programme of activities in terms of aims, partners, means and duration, as specified in a plan of operations, signed by or on behalf of the cooperating (sub)faculties or institutes. In case of a negative evaluation of specific activities, plans for a phased termination of the activities concerned will be drawn up in mutual consultation. Project equipment and materials are Dutch Government property and will become the property of Unibraw upon termination of the Cooperative Relationship.  

b. Financing Two main components can be distinguished in the financing of the cooperation. 

A. Dutch component consisting of 

1. Funds from the Dutch government (1,7 million Dutch guilders for the first three years).  

2. Salaries of LHW staff during short visits and backstopping.    

B. An Indonesian component, mainly consisting of the provision of staff and workroom-, classroom-, and laboratory-facilities.    

c. Organization Both at Indonesian and Dutch side an organization will be set up, allowing for a partnership structure through which counterparts at the various levels can consult each other. The Agricultural University of Wageningen will function as central address for coordination, communication and financial administration for all Dutch partner(s) and authorities concerned. The LHW in close consultation of Unibraw, will prepare and organize the necessary meetings, draft proposals and write the letters necessary for the progress of the programme. The Dutch partner(s) will establish a Steering Committee. In this Committee the representatives of the Executive Boards of the Dutch partner institutions will be the only authorities to make any commitment for their institutions under this Cooperative Relationship. Decisions on general policy matters, on supervision and on coordination of the Programme of Cooperation will be taken in mutual consultation between LHW (or Steering Committee) Unibraw and NUFFIC. At project level project supervisors are responsible for the execution of the activities as described in the plan of operation of the projects. Project supervisors are held to ensure that they are adequately authorized by their (sub)faculty or institute. Each project can have a project committee on both Indonesian and Dutch side.  

d. Progress reports and evaluation To get a good idea about the progress of the projects it will be necessary to produce every half year a written progress-report in the language in which the cooperating partners normally communicate. The reports shall be signed by the cooperating partners and presented to NUFFIC by the Dutch partners in charge of administering the cooperation. By the end of each three year period an overall evaluation may be held at the request of either the sponsoring agencies or of the partners. If the evaluation leads to negative conclusions about specific activities, plans for a phased termination of the activities concerned will be drawn up in mutual consultation between the partners and NUFFIC.  

e. Settlement of conflicts Certain matters may appear not to have been sufficiently covered by this arrangement or may lead to differences of opinion or disputes. In the first instance these should be solved between the direct partners (project supervisors) cooperating within a specific project. If no settlement can be reached at this level the matter will be taken up at institutional level in a consultation between the Dutch (Steering Committee) and the Indonesian partners. If this does not lead to a satisfactory solution, NUFFIC should be informed and take up the matter. If no settlement can be reached along these lines the appropriate Indonesian and Dutch governmental authorities will have to take the ultimate decision. The partners in the Programme of Cooperation undertake to notify each other of any problems that may occur with regard to activities of staff which may endanger the good relationship. Appropriate action should then be taken in mutual consultation.    

### 4  

####Starting and ending of the agreement

This Letter of Intent establishes a formal basis for a long-term Cooperative Relationship and for the implementation of the two projects that have been proposed for the first phase (three years). As soon as the Dutch and Indonesian partners will have obtained the approval of their respective governments on this Letter of Intent and the legal representatives of the here below-mentioned institutions will have signed this Letter, the Cooperative Relationship will be a feact. This Cooperative Relationship derives its content from the projects mentioned under paragraph two of this letter. The agreement of cooperation will not end before the partners and the NUFFIC in mutual consultation will have completed the last project ever started under this Cooperative Relationship.  

### Nr.  II  

Jakarta May 3, 1980 No.: 24852/MPK/80 Subject: Co-operative relationship between the Brawijaya University and the Agricultural University of Wageningen. Your Excellency, I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's letter No. 17236, dated December 3, 1979 and would like to confirm hereby our approval of the proposed co-operation between the Brawijaya University and the Agricultural University of Wageningen as described in the Letter of Intent signed by the two universities and the Plan of Operation attached to Your Excellency's letter. I also have pleasure to inform Your Excellency that the provisions in articles 4 and 5 of the Agreement on Technical Co-operation between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Indonesia of April 3, 1964, shall be applicable to the Netherlands personnel as well as to the importation and exportation of Dutch equipment and all other materials for the Project. This letter together with Your Excellency's letter of December 3,1979 shall be regarded as constituting an Administrative Arrangement within the terms of the aforesaid agreement, which will enter into force on the date of this letter and shall expire on the date when the Project is completed in conformity with the Project documents. Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration. (sd.) DAOED JOESOEF Daoed Joesoef Minister of Education and Culture  *His Excellency*   *P. A. E. Renardel de Lavalette*   *Ambassador of the Kingdom of The Netherlands*   *J1. Kebon Sirih 18*   *Jakarta*    
