<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Briefwisseling houdende een verdrag tussen het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Noord-Atlantische Verdragsorganisatie betreffende de voorrechten en immuniteiten van de NATO Consultation, Command and Control Agency (NC3A)

### Nr.  I  

PERMANENT REPRESENTATION OF THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS TO NATO Brussels, 12 July 2013 Dear Secretary General, I have the honour to refer to the [Agreement on the Status of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, National Representatives and International Staff](../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/agreement/on/the/status/of/the/north/atlantic/treaty/organisation/national/etc/BWBV0005129/README.md), signed at Ottawa on 20 September 1951, to the [Agreement between the Parties of the North Atlantic Treaty regarding the status of their forces](../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/agreement/between/the/parties/to/the/north/atlantic/treaty/regarding/the/etc/BWBV0004785/README.md), signed in London on 19 June 1951, to [the Exchange of Letters between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation of 17 December 2003](../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/briefwisseling/houdende/een/verdrag/tussen/het/koninkrijk/der/nederlanden/etc/BWBV0001627/README.md), and to the decision by NATO to establish the NATO Communications and Information Organisation (NCI Organisation) and the NATO Communications and Information Agency (NCI Agency) as the legal successor Agency of ALTBMD, NACMA, NCSA and NC3A as of 1 July 2012. I have the honour to confirm that all agreements and arrangements which applied to the former NC3O (NC3A/NCSA) on Dutch territory will continue to apply in the same manner with regard to the NCI Organisation and the NCI Agency. In addition, the following provisions shall apply with regard to the protection of the premises, personnel and property of the NCI Agency: 

1. Only NCI Agency personnel shall be allowed to carry or use arms (and other related items) for the protection of the NCI Agency premises, personnel and property.  

2. The General Manager shall notify the Netherlands Government of the name and identity of NCI Agency personnel that is entitled to carry arms on the premises of the NCI Agency, as well as the name, type, calibre and serial number of the arm or arms at his or her disposition.  

3. For the purpose of this Exchange of Letters, “the premises of NCI Agency” means buildings, parts of buildings and areas, including installations and facilities made available to, maintained, occupied or used by the Agency in the Kingdom of the Netherlands in connection with its functions and purposes.  

4. The Kingdom of the Netherlands shall take all effective and adequate measures to ensure the security and protection of the NCI Agency and to ensure that the tranquillity of the NCI Agency is not disturbed by the intrusion of persons or groups from outside the premises of the NCI Agency or by disturbances in their immediate vicinity, and shall provide to the NCI Agency the appropriate protection as may be required.  

5. The authorities of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and of the NCI Agency will coordinate on the activities mentioned above.   If this proposal is acceptable to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, I propose that this Letter and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation’s affirmative reply to it shall together constitute an Agreement between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of receipt of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation’s reply to the Permanent Representative of the Netherlands. Please accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration.  *Sincerely,*  ERICA SCHOUTEN Chargé d’Affaires a.i.  *H.E. Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen*   *Secretary General*   *North Atlantic Treaty Organization*   *Brussels*    

### Nr.  II  

NATO DEPUTY SECRETARY GENERAL Brussels, 24 September 2013 DSG(2-13)0308 Dear Ambassador, I have the honour to refer to the letter of the Permanent Representation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to NATO dated 12 July 2013, which reads as follows:  (Zoals in Nr. I)  I am pleased to inform you of the acceptance by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation of aforementioned letter which together with this reply letter constitutes an Agreement between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation that shall enter into force on the date of receipt of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation’s reply to the Permanent Representation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to NATO.  *Yours sincerely,*  ALEXANDER VERSHBOW Ambassador  *Her Excellency Mrs Marjanne de Kwaasteniet*   *Permanent Representative of the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the North Atlantic Council*    
