<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling inzake uitbreiding tot Aruba van het Verdrag tussen het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Republiek Korea inzake scheepvaart van 3 februari 1995

### Nr.  I  

Seoul, 20 January 1998 No. SEO/MP-013/98 The Royal Netherlands Embassy presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea and has the honour to propose, on behalf of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, that the Agreement on Maritime Transport between the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Government of the Republic of Korea, signed at Seoul on 3 February 1995 and hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement", be extended to Aruba, in accordance with Article XVI, paragraph 2, of the Agreement. With a view to this extension: with regard to Article I, paragraph I, the “Competent Maritime Authority" of Aruba would be the Directorate General of Shipping and Maritime Affairs of the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Utilities in Aruba; with regard to Article IX, the seaman's identity documents for crew members on vessels of Aruba would be the Aruban Seaman's Book („monsterboekje"). If this proposal is acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Korea, the Embassy further proposes that this Note and the confirmative reply of the Ministry shall constitute an agreement extending the aforesaid Agreement to Aruba, in conformity with Article XVI, paragraph 2, of the Agreement, which shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date of receipt of the confirmative reply of the Ministry. The Royal Netherlands Embassy avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea the assurances of its highest consideration.  *Ministry of Foreign Affairs*   *of the Republic of Korea*   *Seoul*    

### Nr.  II  

###MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS REPUBLIC OF KOREA

Seoul, 13 February 1998 OGD-74 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea presents its compliments to the Royal Netherlands Embassy and has the honour to acknowledge the receipt of the Embassy's Note No. SE/MP 013/98 of 20 January 1998 which reads as follows:  (Zoals in Nr. I)  The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea has the honour to inform the Embassy, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Korea, that the above proposal of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands is acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Korea and to confirm that the Embassy's Note and this Note in reply shall be regarded as constituting an agreement on this matter, which shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date of this Note in reply. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Royal Netherlands Embassy the assurances of its highest consideration.  *Royal Netherlands Embassy*    
