<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Regering van de Verenigde Staten van Amerika houdende een overeenkomst inzake het installeren en doen functioneren van een radio-zend- en ontvangststation op de Ambassade van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden te Washington

### Nr.  I  

The Department of State refers to Note No. AZ-12808 dated October 10, 1980, from the Royal Netherlands Embassy, requesting approval for the installation and operation of a radio station transmitter-receiver for direct communications with The Hague and as a relay station between the Netherlands and Netherlands Embassies in Central America and South America. United States intra-governmental procedural formalities, referred to in the Department's Note of October 29, 1980, have been completed. Accordingly, it is suggested it now be agreed that the Government of the Netherlands may install and operate a low-power radio station in the fixed service at or near the site of its Embassy in Washington for the transmission of its official messages to points outside the United States. The Department is also pleased to furnish the enclosed information sheet describing technical data which must be submitted by the Embassy before the necessary authorization for the operation of a radio transmitter can be issued. <sup> 1)  [Red: niet opgenomen.]  </sup> The Department of State will consider the present note and the Embassy's reply concurring therein as constituting an agreement in principal between the two governments, which will enter into force on the date of the reply note. Enclosure: Information Sheet <sup> 1)  [Red: niet opgenomen.]  </sup> Department of State, Washington, August 11, 1981   

### Nr.  II  

###ROYAL NETHERLANDS EMBASSY, WASHINGTON

The Royal Netherlands Embassy presents its compliments to the Department of State and, in compliance with the Department's Note of August 11, 1981, has the honour to submit herewith a sheet containing the technical data for the issuance of the necessary authorization for the operation of a radio transmitter. <sup> 1)  [Red: niet opgenomen.]  </sup> As to the receiver points mentioned under 5 on the technical data sheet the Embassy may inform the Department that the Netherlands Government plans to increase the number of receiver points in Latin America in the future. The Embassy agrees that the Department's Note of August 11, 1981 and this reply note by the Embassy will be considered as constituting an agreement in principle between the two governments, which will enter into force on the date of this reply note. The Royal Netherlands Embassy avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Department of State the assurance of its highest consideration. Washington D.C., September 14, 1981.  *The Honorable*   *The Secretary of State*   *Department of State*   *Washington D.C.*    
