<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Briefwisseling houdende een verdrag tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en het Internationaal Agentschap voor Atoomenergie (IAEA) inzake de gezamenlijke IAEA/EC-JRC regionale workshop over “Precursor, Transient and Root Cause Analyses”, 22–26 augustus 2011 te Petten

### Nr.  I  

INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY Vienna, 14 July 2011 Subject: Joint IAEA/EC-JRC Regional Workshop on Precursor, Transient and Root Cause Analyses, Petten, The Netherlands, from 22 to 26 August 2011 Sir, I have the honour to refer to earlier consultations, at the technical level, between the Secretariat of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and representatives of your Government concerning the organization of the above workshop from 22 to 26 August 2011 within the framework of the IAEA technical cooperation project RER9095 'Strengthening Safety Assessment Capabilities'. The purpose of the workshop is to present various event investigation methodologies suitable for use by nuclear power plants, regulatory bodies or technical support organizations, recognizing the fact that all events are not alike and therefore require different techniques in order to be properly analysed. Approximately 25 persons from 18 countries are expected to attend, as well as representative(s) from the lAEA. As the workshop will be held on the territory of the Netherlands, I hereby would like to request your Government's consent for the IAEA to hold this workshop in Petten. This consent will not imply any financial commitments for the Government of the Netherlands, but I would request you to confirm your Government's agreement with the following arrangements which are customary for all the IAEA’s workshops: 

1. The Government of the Netherlands (hereinafter referred to as the Government) will accord to the IAEA, its property, funds and assets, and to the officials of the IAEA and participants officially designated to attend the workshop in their official capacities, and to members of the immediate families of such persons, the privileges and immunities contained in the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which was accepted by the Government on 29 August 1963.  

2. The Government will accord to the persons mentioned to above every facility necessary for the performance of their functions in connection with the workshop, including entering, remaining in and leaving the Netherlands. The Government will issue any necessary visas as expeditiously as possible and, where the legislation of the Netherlands permits, free of charge. The Government, however, reserves the right to deny, irrespective of nationality, visas to individual participants for national security reasons. Annex A contains the list of member states to be invited to participate in the workshop. The IAEA will inform the Government promptly of all persons officially designated to attend the workshop. The IAEA will also advise such persons to apply for visas, if necessary, in good time before the opening date of the workshop, and the Government is expected to issue such visas promptly so as to allow them to attend the workshop.  

3. The Government will facilitate customs formalities for the persons referred to above when they enter and leave the Netherlands, as well as for the publications and other material being provided by the IAEA.  

4. The Government will exercise reasonable care to ensure security on the premises where the workshop takes place and to ensure the safety of the persons mentioned in paragraph 1 above while they are on those premises. The Government will take whatever steps may be reasonable in the circumstances to ensure such security and safety, including such supervision of the premises as may be warranted.   I am sending a copy of this letter to Mr Manuel Martin Ramos, Institute of Energy of the European Commission Joint Research Centre, who has so far been our principal contact regarding the workshop. Should your Government wish to host this workshop, I would be grateful if you would inform me in writing of your Government's agreement to the above enumerated points, by 29 July 2011 so as to enable the Secretariat to proceed with timely arrangements. I would like to convey to you the IAEA’s deep appreciation of your Government's contribution towards the technical cooperation programme. Accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration. KWAKU ANING Deputy Director General Head of the Department of Technical Cooperation For the DIRECTOR GENERAL Enclosures: Annex A: List of Member States to be invited Copy of letter to European Commission DG Joint Research Centre, Petten cc: Mr Manuel Martín Ramos, Institute for Energy of the European Commission Joint Research Centre  *H E Mr. Alphons Hamer*   *Ambassador*   *Resident Representative of the Netherlands to the IAEA*   *Opernring 5/7 <sup>th</sup> floor*   *1010 VIENNA*    

### Annex  A  

####List of Member States to be Invited

Regional Workshop on Precursor, Transient and Root Cause Analyses  

###Petten, The Netherlands

###22–26 August 2011

###Ref. No.: Cl-RER/9/095-9030

Armenia Belarus Bulgaria Croatia Czech Republic Hungary Kazakhstan Lithuania Poland Republic of Moldavia Romania Russian Federation Serbia Slovakia Slovenia Turkey Ukraine Uzbekistan   

### Nr.  II  

PERMANENT MISSION OF THE NETHERLANDS TO THE UN Vienna, 11 August 2011 Re Joint IAEA/EC-JRC Regional Workshop on Precursor, Transient and Root Cause Analyses, Petten, The Netherlands, from 22 to 26 August 2011 Sir, I have the honour to refer to your letter reference RER/9/095-9030 of 14 July 2011, relating to an Agreement to be concluded between the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) concerning the Joint IAEA/EC-JRC Regional Workshop on Precursor, Transient and Root Cause Analyses, which is scheduled to be held in Petten, the Netherlands, from 22 to 26 August 2011, which reads as follows:  (Zoals in Brief Nr. I)  I am authorized by the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to state that it agrees to the proposals regarding the organization of the Workshop. Further, I am authorized to state that the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands considers your letter and this reply as together constituting an Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the IAEA concerning the Joint IAEA/EC-JRC Regional Workshop on Precursor, Transient and Root Cause Analyses, which shall enter into force on the date of this reply and shall remain in force for the duration of the Workshop and for such additional period as is necessary for its preparation and winding up, the total duration of this Agreement, however, not to exceed one year. Please accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration. MARJOLIJN VAN DEELEN Counsellor Deputy Resident Representative  *Mr. Kwaku Aning*   *Deputy Director General*   *Head of the Department of Technical Cooperation*   *International Atomic Energy Agency*   *Vienna International Centre*   *Vienna*    
