<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Briefwisseling tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Multilaterale Vredesmacht (MFO) houdende een overeenkomst inzake de uitbreiding van het Nederlandse contingent

### Nr.I  

####MULTINATIONAL FORCE AND OBSERVERS

Rome, Italy April 29, 1986 Dear Mr. Ambassador: I have the honor to refer to the agreement by an exchange of letters of March 2 and 4,1982 between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Multinational Force and Observers (MFO), and related understandings and extensions, regarding the participation of the Netherlands in the MFO. Pursuant to this agreement, the Netherlands has contributed a contingent principally composed of a Military Signals Unit and the Force Military Police Unit (FMPU). While the agreement describes the overall complement of the Contingent as "approximately 105 personnel", the number of each of these two units was fixed in Annex I to the agreement. An early appreciation that the FMPU required additional personnel to perform its duties satisfactorily led to an increase in the unit from the envisioned 21 personnel to a current total of 23. The Provost Marshal has now indicated a requirement for 10 additional personnel; this conclusion has been endorsed by Lieutenant General Ingebrigtsen, the Force Commander, and by this Headquarters. This request is based on the need to improve monitoring and control of movements of MFO personnel and supplies across the international boundary between Egypt and Israel; the dedication of certain non-commissioned officers to specialized functions of continuing importance to current FMPU operations, particularly special drug and technical vehicle accident investigations; and the recent loss by the FMPU of four military police who had been temporarily attached to the FMPU by another contingent in order to assist the FMPU in meeting current demands. Taking into account appropriate allowances for leave and off-duty periods, these factors, in our opinion, amply justify this proposed increase. I therefore have the honor to propose that the Netherlands Government agree, on this basis and in the interest of maintaining a certain degree of flexibility in staffing subject to case-by-case approval of the MFO and the Netherlands authorities, to provide the MFO with a contingent composed of approximately 117 personnel, consisting of officers serving in agreed positions on the staff of the Force Commander, the Signals Unit at the level of approximately 81 personnel, as at present, and the FMPU composed of approximately 33 personnel, which includes the proposed increase. If the foregoing is agreeable to your Government, on the understanding that all other aspects of the agreement by exchange of letters of March 2 and 4, 1982 and related understandings and extensions remain unaffected, I have the honor to propose that this Note, together with your affirmative reply, shall constitute an agreement between the MFO and the Kingdom of the Netherlands effective on the date of your reply. Please accept the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. (sd.) PETER D. CONSTABLE Peter D. Constable  *Director General*   *His Excellency,*   *Baron W. van Pallandt,*   *Embassy of the Netherlands,*   *Via Michele Mercati 8,*   *00197 Rome*    

### Nr.II  

####AMBASSADE VAN HET KONINKRIJK DER NEDERLANDEN

No. 2653 Rome, May 6, 1986 Dear Mr. Director General, I have the honor to refer to your letter of April 29, 1986, and to convey the agreement of my Government to the proposal contained therein to increase by ten additional personnel the current staffing of the Force Military Police Unit contributed by the Kingdom of the Netherlands to the Multinational Force and Observers (MFO). I therefore confirm that your letter, together with this reply, shall together constitute an agreement effective this date between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the MFO in accordance with the provisions of your letter, and on the understanding that all other aspects of the Netherlands' participation in the MFO as set forth in the agreement by exchange of letters of March 2 and 4, 1982, its extensions, and related understandings, remain unaffected. Please accept, Mr. Director General, the renewed assurances of my high consideration. (sd.) VAN PALLANDT Baron Wilprand van Pallandt  *Ambassador*   *Mr. Peter D. Constable*   *Director General*   *Multinational Force and Observers*   *Viale Shakespeare 77*   *Rome/EUR*    
