<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Briefwisseling houdende een verdrag tussen het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Haagse Conferentie voor Internationaal Privaatrecht inzake het verlenen van nadere voorrechten en immuniteiten

### Nr.  I  

###MINISTER VAN BUITENLANDSE ZAKEN

The Hague, 28 February 2002  Dear Mr. v. Loon, I have the honour to refer to the correspondence between you and representatives of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands concerning privileges and immunities to be extended to the Secretaries referred to in Article 4 of the Statute of the Hague Conference on Private International Law of 31 October 1951 (hereinafter: the Statute). With reference to the Exchanges of Letters of 1 December 1959, 2/10 May 1989 and 16/17 December 1992, I have the honour to propose that the Secretaries referred to in Article 4 of the Statute not having the Dutch nationality or permanently residing in the Netherlands and the members of their families forming part of their household not having the Dutch nationality or permanently residing in the Netherlands shall, in addition to the privileges and immunities extended to them by the aforementioned Exchanges of Letters, be accorded the privileges and immunities as are accorded to members of the diplomatic staff of comparable rank and the members of their families forming part of their household, as referred to in the Convention on Diplomatic Relations (Vienna, 18 April 1961). I have the honour to propose that if this is acceptable, this letter and your letter in reply indicating your acceptance shall constitute an agreement between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Hague Conference on Private International Law, which shall enter into force on the date of receipt of your reply. Please accept, Mr. Secretary-General, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. Sincerely yours, (sd.) JOZIAS VAN AARTSEN J. J. van Aartsen Minister of Foreign Affairs   *Mr J. H. A. van Loon*   *Secretary-General of*   *the Hague Conference on Private International Law*   *Scheveningseweg 6*   *2517 KT The Hague*    

### Nr.  II  

###HAGUE CONFERENCE ON PRIVATE INTERNATIONAL LAW

No 18055(02)VL/AN  The Hague, 5 March 2002  Excellency, I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of Your letter of 28 February 2002 which reads as follows:  (Zoals in Nr. I)  I have the honour to confirm, Your Excellency, that the Hague Conference on Private International Law accepts the above proposal of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and to confirm that Your letter and this reply shall constitute an agreement between the Hague Conference on Private International Law and the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which shall enter into force on the date of receipt by Your Excellency of this letter of reply. Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.  (sd,) J. H. A. VAN LOON J. H. A. van Loon The Secretary General   *His Excellency*   *Mr J. J. van Aartsen*   *Minister of Foreign Affairs*   *Ministry of Foreign Affairs*   *Postbus 20061*   *2500 EB 's-Gravenhage*    
