<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Regering van Finland inzake uitbreiding van het Europees Verdrag betreffende uitlevering tot de Nederlandse Antillen en Aruba

### Nr.  I  

###ROYAL NETHERLANDS EMBASSY

Raatimiehenkatu 2 A 7 00140 Helsinki Helsinki, 5 February 1996 No. 322 The Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands presents its compliments to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Finland and has the honour to propose that the application of the European Convention on Extradition of 13 December 1957, in accordance with article 27, paragraph 4, be extended to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, that the declarations and reservations that apply in relations between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in respect of the Kingdom in Europe, and Finland shall also apply in relations between Finland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, and that the declaration concerning articles 6 and 21 as made by the Kingdom of the Netherlands upon ratification of the Convention on 14 February 1969 and as amended on 14 October 1987 shall apply to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba respectively, with regard to the extradition of Netherlands nationals, only when the European Convention on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons, concluded in Strasbourg on 21 March 1983, becomes applicable to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba respectively. If this proposal is acceptable to the Government of Finland, the Embassy has the honour further to propose that this Note and the Ministry's affirmative reply, shall constitute an arrangement as provided for in article 27, paragraph 4, of the Convention, which shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the date on which the Embassy receives the Ministry's reply. The Embassy has further the honour to inform the Ministry that on 21 July 1993 by a declaration through its Permanent Mission with the Council of Europe the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands has extended the application of the Additional Procotol, including the declaration by the Netherlands thereto, and the Second Protocol to the European Convention on Extradition to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba in relation with the Signatory States, for which the European Convention on Extradition also applies to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba. The Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Finland the assurances of its highest consideration.    *Ministry for Foreign Affairs*   *of the Republic of Finland*   *Helsinki*    

### Nr.  II  

###MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF FINLAND

Helsinki, 4 July 1996 No. 12992 The Ministry for Foreign Affairs present their compliments to the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of the Embassy's Note No. 322, dated on 6 February 1996 which reads as follows:  (Zoals in nr. I)  In reply, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs have the honour to confirm that the foregoing proposal is acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Finland and that the Embassy's Note and this reply shall constitute an Agreement between our two Governments which shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the date on which the Embassy receives the Ministry's reply. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs avail themselves of this opportunity to renew to the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands the assurance of their highest consideration.    *To the Royal Netherlands Embassy*   *Helsinki*    
