<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Briefwisseling tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Verenigde Naties houdende een verdrag inzake de toepassing van het tussen Partijen gesloten Verdrag betreffende de zetel van het Internationaal Tribunaal voor het voormalige Joegoslavië, op de werkzaamheden en handelingen van het Internationaal Tribunaal voor Ruanda

### Nr.  I  

####UNITED NATIONS – NATIONS UNIES

22 April 1996 Sir, As you know, by resolution 955 (1994) of 8 November 1994 the Security Council of the United Nations, acting under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, established an International Tribunal for the sole purpose of prosecuting persons responsible for genocide and other serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of Rwanda and Rwandan citizens responsible for genocide and other such violations committed in the territory of neigboring States, between 1 January 1994 and 31 December 1994 (hereinafter referred to as “the International Tribunal for Rwanda"). By the same resolution the Security Council adopted the Statute of the International Tribunal for Rwanda (hereinafter referred to as “the Statute"). Although the International Tribunal for Rwanda is a separate entity from the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, there are nevertheless certain institutional links between the two Tribunals which have been formalized in the Statute. I refer, in particular, to the common Appeals Chamber and the common Prosecutor. While the Security Council has designated Arusha as the seat of the International Tribunal for Rwanda and decided that an Office of the Prosecutor should be in Kigali, given the institutional links between the two Tribunals, it is evident that certain activities and proceedings of the International Tribunal for Rwanda may be undertaken in The Hague from time to time. In order to facilitate such activities and proceedings of the International Tribunal for Rwanda as may take place in The Hague, I have the honour to propose that the pertinent provisions of the Agreement between the United Nations and the Kingdom of the Netherlands concerning the Headquarters of the International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, concluded on 24 July 1994, be applicable, mutatis mutandis, to the activities and proceedings of the International Tribunal for Rwanda in the territory of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in particular: The judges of the Appeals Chamber and the Prosecutor residing in The Hague will enjoy the privileges and immunities as mentioned in Article XIV of the Agreement; Staff of the liaison office in The Hague will enjoy the privileges and immunities mentioned in Article XV of the Agreement; Staff and persons performing missions for the Rwanda Tribunal not forming part of the liaison office in The Hague, shall enjoy the privileges and immunities mentioned in Article XVII of the Agreement. I further propose that upon receipt of your confirmation in writing of the above, this exchange of letters shall constitute an agreement between the United Nations and the Kingdom of the Netherlands regarding the applicability of the above-referenced Headquarters Agreement to the activities and proceedings of the International Tribunal for Rwanda in the territory of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which will enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date of receipt of your confirmation. Please accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration. (sd.) H. CORELL Hans Corell Under-Secretary-General for Legal Affairs The Legal Counsel  *His Excellency*   *Mr. Nicolaas H. Biegman*   *Permanent Representative of the*   *Kingdom of the Netherlands*   *to the United Nations*   *New York*    

### Nr.  II  

####PERMANENT MISSION OF THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS TO THE UNITED NATIONS

New York, 24 April 1996 No. nyv-2653 Excellency, I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's letter of 22 April 1996, which reads as follows:  (Zoals in Nr. I)  On behalf of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, I have further the honour to inform your Excellency that the foregoing proposals are acceptable and to confirm that this exchange of letters shall constitute an agreement between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the United Nations regarding the applicability of the Agreement to the activities and proceedings of the International Tribunal for Rwanda in the territory of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which will enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date of receipt of this confirmation. Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration. Yours sincerely, (sd.) N. H. BIEGMAN Dr. N. H. Biegman Ambassador Permanent Representative  *H.E. Mr. Hans Corell*   *Under-Secretary-General for Legal Affairs*   *The Legal Counsel*   *United Nations*   *S-3427A*   *New York, N.Y. 10017*    
