<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Regering van Estland inzake de uitbreiding van het Europees Verdrag betreffende uitlevering tot de Nederlandse Antillen en Aruba

### Nr.  I  

###ROYAL NETHERLANDS EMBASSY

Helsinki, 24 June 1997 No. EST/322 The Royal Netherlands Embassy presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia and has the honour to inform the Latter as follows. On 27 July 1997 the European Convention on Extradition (Paris, 13 December 1957) will enter into force between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Republic of Estonia. The Netherlands authorities propose that the application of this Convention, in accordance with Article 27, paragraph 4, be extended to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, and that the declarations and reservations that apply in relations between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in respect of the Kingdom in Europe, and the Republic of Estonia shall also apply in relations between the Republic of Estonia and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba. The Embassy would appreciate it to learn whether this proposal is acceptable to the Estonian authorities. If so, the Embassy has the honour further to propose that the enclosed draft Note and the Ministry's affirmative reply shall constitute an arrangement as provided for in Arti-cle 27, paragraph 4, of the Convention, which shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the date on which the Embassy receives the Ministry's reply. <sup>  Niet afgedrukt.  </sup> It would be highly valued if the Ministry could inform this Embassy in due course if the Estonian authorities can concur with the above procedure. The Royal Netherlands Embassy avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia the assurances of its highest consideration.    *Ministry of Foreign Affairs*   *of the Republic of Estonia*   *Tallinn*    

### Nr.  II  

###MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA

Tallinn, July 17, 1997 No. 10/10980 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia present their compliments to the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and have the honour referring to the Embassy's Note, No. 322 dated June 24, 1997 concerning the extension of the application of the European Convention on extradition to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba to inform the Embassy in following: The Embassy's proposal referred to above is acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Embassy's Note and the present Note shall constitute an arrangement as provided for in Article 27, paragraph 4, of the Convention, which shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the date on which the Embassy receives the present Note. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia avail themselves of this opportunity to renew to the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands the assurances of their highest consideration.    *Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands*   *Helsinki*    
