<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Regering van de Verenigde Staten van Amerika houdende een verdrag tot wijziging van het Luchtvaartverdrag tussen het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden voor de Nederlandse Antillen en de Verenigde Staten van Amerika inzake het luchtvervoer tussen de Nederlandse Antillen en de Verenigde Staten van Amerika

### Nr.  I  

DEPARTMENT OF STATE, WASHINGTON Washington, July 27, 2007 The Department of State refers the Royal Netherlands Embassy to the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of the Netherlands Antilles Relating to Air Transport Between the Netherlands Antilles and the United States of America, signed at Washington July 14, 1998 (the “Agreement”). In light of discussions between the two governments concerning removal from the Agreement of provisions relating to regulation of computer reservation systems, the Department of State, on behalf of the Government of the United States of America, proposes that Annex III to the Agreement be deleted. If the Kingdom of the Netherlands concurs with this proposal, the Department further proposes that this note and the Embassy’s affirmative note in reply shall constitute an agreement on this subject between the United States of America and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of the Netherlands Antilles which shall enter into force on the date of the Embassy’s note in reply. Royal Netherlands Embassy Washington   

### Nr.  II  

ROYAL NETHERLANDS EMBASSY WASHINGTON Washington, DC, 27 November 2007 The Royal Netherlands Embassy has the honour to refer to the Note of 27 July 2007 of the Department of State relating to the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of the Netherlands Antilles Relating to Air Transport Between the Netherlands Antilles and the United States of America, signed at Washington July 14, 1998 (the “Agreement”). The Embassy confirms that concerning the removal from the Agreement of the provisions relating to regulation of computer reservation systems, the proposal to delete Annex III to the Agreement is acceptable to the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The Embassy furthermore confirms that the Department’s note and this note in reply shall constitute an agreement on this subject between the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of the Netherlands Antilles and the United States of America. It shall enter into force only after the Kingdom of the Netherlands has notified the United States of America in writing through diplomatic channels that its constitutional requirements for the entry into force have been complied with. The Royal Netherlands Embassy avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Department of State the assurances of its highest consideration. US Department of State Office of Aviation Negotiations 2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20520   
