<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Regering van Kroatië inzake uitbreiding van het Europees Verdrag betreffende uitlevering tot de Nederlandse Antillen en Aruba

### Nr.  I  

ROYAL NETHERLANDS EMBASSY ZAGREB Zagreb, 16 October 1995 Note no. 555/95 The Royal Netherlands Embassy in Zagreb presents ist compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia and has the honour to propose that the application of the European Convention on Extradition of 13 December 1957, in accordance with Article 27, paragraph 4, be extended to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, that the declarations and reservations that apply in relations between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in respect of the Kingdom in Europe, and the Republic of Croatia shall also apply in relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, and that the declaration concerning Articles 6 and 21 as made by the Kingdom of the Netherlands upon ratification of the Convention on 14 February 1969 and as amended on 14 October 1987 shall apply to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba respectively, with regard to the extradition of Netherlands nationals, only when the European Convention on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons, concluded in Strasbourg on 21 March 1983, becomes applicable to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba respectively. If this proposal is acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the Embassy has the honour further to propose that this Note and the Ministry's affirmative reply, shall constitute an arrangement as provided for in Article 27, paragraph 4, of the Convention, which shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the date on which the Embassy receives the Ministry's reply. The Royal Netherlands Embassy takes this opportunity to renew to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia the assurances of its highest consideration.    *The Ministry of Foreign Affairs*   *of the Republic of Croatia*   *Zagreb*    

### Nr.  II  

REPUBLIC OF CROATIA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS Zagreb, 12 February 1996 No. 0506-96/10 DP Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia presents is compliments to the Royal Netherlands Embassy in Zagreb and has the honour to confirm the receipt of its Note, no. 555/95 of 16 October 1995 which reads as follows:  (Zoals in Nr. I  The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia has the honour to confirm that the Government of the Republic of Croatia agrees with the text of the Embassy's Note no. 555/95 of 16 October 1995 and that abovementioned Note and this Note constitute an arrangement as provided in Article 27, paragraph 4, of the Convention. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Embassy the assurances of its highest consideration.    *The Royal Netherlands Embassy*   *Zagreb*    
