<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Regering van Liechtenstein inzake uitbreiding van het Europees Verdrag betreffende uitlevering tot de Nederlandse Antillen en Aruba

### Nr.  I  

Berne, 30th June, 1993 No.: 1310 The Royal Netherlands Embassy presents its compliments to the Embassy of the Principality of Liechtenstein and has the honour to propose that the application of the European Convention on Extradition of 13 December, 1957, in accordance with article 27, paragraph 4, be extended to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, that the declarations and reservations that apply in relations between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in respect of the Kingdom in Europe, and the Principality of Liechtenstein shall also apply in relations between the Principality of Liechtenstein and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, and that the declaration concerning articles 6 and 21 as made by the Kingdom of the Netherlands upon ratification of the Convention on 14 February, 1969, and as amended on 14 October, 1987, shall apply to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba respectively, with regard to the extradition of Netherlands nationals, only when the European Convention on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons, concluded in Strasbourg on 21 March, 1983, becomes applicable to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba respectively. If this proposal is acceptable to the Government of Liechtenstein, the Embassy has the honour further to propose that this Note and the affirmative reply of the Embassy of Liechtenstein, shall constitute an arrangement as provided for in article 27, paragraph 4, of the Convention, which shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the date on which the Embassy receives the reply of the Embassy of Liechtenstein. The Royal Netherlands Embassy avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Embassy of the Principality of Liechtenstein the assurances of its highest consideration.    *The Embassy of the Principality of Liechtenstein,*   *3006 Berne*    

### Nr.  II  

AMBASSADE DE LA PRINCIPAUTÉ DE LIECHTENSTEIN Bern, 29th September, 1993 NL 607/764-0730/93 The Embassy of the Principality of Liechtenstein presents its compliments to the Royal Netherlands Embassy and has the honour to acknowlegde receipt of its note no. 1310 dated 30th June, 1993 which has the following content:  (Zoals in Nr. I)  The Embassy has the honour to inform the Royal Netherlands Embassy that the Government of Liechtenstein has given its agreement to the proposals contained in the afore-mentioned note. The note of the Royal Netherlands Embassy and this note constitute an arrangement as provided for in article 27, paragraph 4, of the Convention, which shall enter into force on December 1, 1993. The Embassy of the Principality of Liechtenstein avails itself of the opportunity to renew to the Royal Netherlands Embassy the assurances of its highest consideration.    *Royal Netherlands Embassy*   *Bern*    
