<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling tussen de Nederlandse Regering en de Regering van de Verenigde Staten van Amerika betreffende de regeling van het vrijgeven van Nederlandse activa in de Verenigde Staten van Amerika

MINISTERIE VAN FINANCIËN. 's-Gravenhage, January 22nd, 1946. The Hon. Fred. M. Vinson, Secretary of the Treasury. WASHINGTON D.C. My dear Mr. Secretary, In recent discussions held between representatives of my Department and members of the United States Treasury, it was indicated that your Department is now prepared to institute a procedure for the release of Netherlands assets now blocked under Executive Order No. 8389 and the U.S. Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 as amended. I am grateful for the prompt action of the United States Government in blocking Netherlands assets on 10th May 1940, and the ensuing practice of foreign funds control, which has fitted remarkably well in the principles and aims of the Joint Declaration of 5th January 1943, of which, as you will recall, the Netherlands Government, then in London, was one of the originators, and the terms of Resolution VI of the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference, held in Bretton Woods. The principles underlying this resolution have since been given effect in the Netherlands legislation now in force. I have studied general license No. 95 of your Department which it has been suggested might be made applicable to the Netherlands. After consultation with my colleagues I confirm in this connection my agreement on the following points: 

1. The competent Netherlands authorities will assume the responsibility for carrying out the procedure of certification provided for by the license. No property will be certified until the Netherlands Government has ascertained by appropriate investigation, that the property is not excluded from the benefits of the License. It is understood that operating problems which may arise under the arrangement set out in this letter may from time to time be reviewed by our two Departments with a view to arriving at mutually satisfactory solutions and ensuring the smooth operation of the procedure. Moreover in regard to accounts which may from time to time be specifically indicated by the United States Treasury, consultations with your Department will be held prior to making the certification provided for in the proposed general license.  

2. It is understood that within the framework of the general license no certifications will be issued which: 

a. would facilitate the completion of transactions which might further the interests of an enemy or of persons acting upon behalf of an enemy.  

b. would change the status quo of blocked property in the United States in which an enemy has an interest, direct or indirect. If property in which there is an enemy interest is transformed under the license inadvertently or by mistake, your Department will be consulted and, at its request, appropriate measures will be taken to ensure that such property or its equivalent will be restored to the account in which it was held before being transferred, or to such other accounts as you may designate, but only to the extent to which such property or its equivalent may be found among the assets of the first acquirer of the original owner.    

3. As to the property of any partnership, association, corporation or any other organization, established in accordance with the laws of the Netherlands, which, by reason of the interests of persons not resident in the Netherlands, is also a national of another country designated in the freezing order, within the meaning of the general license No. 95, no certification will be made untill full assurances have first been obtained from the Government of the other country to the specific effect that no national of Germany, Japan, Bulgaria, Hungary or Rumania is involved in the ownership or control of such interests. For reasons of simplification, however, the Netherlands authorities may, on their own responsibility, certify property of any organization in which the proportion of such interests is less than twenty-five percent. With respect to any property not covered by the preceding paragraph in which any other country specified in general license No. 95 or any national thereof has an interest my Government will not certify until full assurances have been obtained from the other Government that such interest itself is entitled to certification under the license. It is understood, however, that it will not be necessary to obtain such assurances where the value of the property involved is less than $ 1000.  

4. Our two Departments will make joint efforts with a view to investigating and controlling all German and other enemy assets both in the United States and in the Netherlands in order to deprive war criminals and potential leaders of the enemy underground of means of existing and of jeopardizing the peace. In particular, our two Departments will take all steps necessary to prevent the financial facilities which our two countries may grant each other from being utilized by any person subject to Netherlands or American jurisdiction in such manner as might allow enemies or their agents to conceal assets in the United States or in the Netherlands. Our two Departments will exchange all information required to carry out this task, and in particular the Netherlands Government, which has already undertaken a vigorous program to eliminate economic and financial enemy interests in the Netherlands, will keep yours fully informed with regard to property held in the United States under a Netherlands name when it has reason to believe that there is any enemy interest, direct or indirect, in such property. My Government will likewise furnish yours with all information concerning Netherlands instititions which hold in the United States property in which an enemy might have an interest. It is of course understood that your Department will make all information on this subject available to the Netherlands authorities concerned.  

5. As a result of the protection accorded to Netherlands assets, and of other circumstance which arose during the war, American creditors have been temporarily deprived of certain means of action which normally would have been open to them to protect their interests. The Netherlands Government proposes, in accordance with its longstanding practice, to allow debtors in the Netherlands to settle their indebtedness to United States Government agencies, individuals or firms and to provide within the limits of its resources the foreign exchange necessary to that end.  

6. Concerning the transfer of funds from the Netherlands to the United States it is the intention of my Government to liberalize control restrictions to the fullest extent that the foreign exchange position of each part of the Kingdom will permit. In this connection the competent Netherlands authorities will authorize all payments for the purpose of duly authorized current business or commercial transactions including balances emanating from said sources which have accrued during the war. The competent Netherlands authorities, moreover, will examine carefully requests for transfers of capital from the Netherlands to the United States when transfers of that type might serve useful economic or commercial purpose, and where transfers of small amounts are of substantial importance to the interested parties. They will examine in the same spirit requests for transfers of funds to the United States filed by American nationals residing in the Netherlands.   Your Government will be aware that immediately upon the liberation of the Netherlands, the measures of control over foreign property instituted by the enemy were abrogated. Custodians over foreign property are now acting only if and in so far as the original owners are incapable of acting themselves. An administrative procedure is now established whereby such absent owners can at their request be reinstated in their rights. My Government has not imposed restrictions on the assets of nationals of the United States for the purpose of controlling property in which an enemy interest might exist, except in particular cases in which my Government has reason to believe that control is necessary to prevent the transfer of property in which any enemy has an interest or to avoid the completion of transactions which might be directly or indirectly to the benefit of any enemy. Property in the Netherlands of nationals of the United States will be treated on as favourable a basis as applied now or hereafter to nationals of any other country. Accept, my dear Mr. Secretary, the expression of my high esteem, P. LIEFTINCK,  *Minister of Finance.*    

###THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY

###WASHINGTON

Washington, February 11, 1946. My dear Mr. Minister, I am pleased to have received the assurances contained in your letter of January 22, 1946, concerning the general licence which representatives of our two Departments have been discussing. In view of the statements contained in your letter, I am happy to inform you that on February 13, 1946, by amendment to General Licence No. 95, the Netherlands will be added to the countries covered by that licence. Enclosed for your information are a copy of the license and of the amendment thereto. Sincerely, FRED. M. VINSON,  *Secretary of the Treasury.*  His Excellency PIETER LIEFTINCK Minister of Finance Ministry of Finance The Hague, The Netherlands. Enclosures.   

Treasury Department Foreign Funds Control December 7,1945 
###GENERAL LICENSE NO. 94

###UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 8389, AS AMENDED, EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 9193, AS AMENDED, SECTION 5 (b) OF THE TRADING WITH THE ENEMY ACT, AS AMENDED BY THE FIRST WAR POWERS ACT, 1941, RELATING TO FOREIGN FUNDS CONTROL.

*Certain Countries Generally Licensed*  

1. *Blocked countries generally licensed subject to certain conditions.* A general license is hereby granted licensing all blocked countries and nationals thereof (excepting the following countries and nationals thereof: 1. Germany and Japan, 2. Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Tangier) to be regarded as if such countries were not foreign countries designated in the Order, *provided that* 

a. any property in which on the effective date hereof any of the following (including countries licensed hereby) or person therein; or 2. any other partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, which was a national of a blocked country (including countries licensed hereby) by reason of the interest of any such country or person therein; or  

b. any income from such property accruing on or after the effective date hereof   shall continue to be regarded as property in which a blocked country or national thereof has an interest and no payment, transfer, or withdrawal or other dealing with respect to such property shall be effected under, or be deemed to be authorized by, this paragraph.  

2. *Transactions under other licenses authorized without regard to certain restrictions.* With respect to property subject to the proviso of paragraph 1, any transaction not involving any excepted country or national thereof which is authorized under any license (other than General Licenses Nos. 1, 1A, 4, 27, 30A, 58 and 75 or any other license to the extent that it merely authorizes transfers between blocked accounts of the same person or changes in the form of property held in a blocked account) may be effected without regard to any terms of such license relating to the method of effecting such transaction.  

3. *Certain other transactions authorized.* This license also authorizes any transaction which could be effected under General License No. 53 if the countries licensed hereby were members of the generally licensed trade area, provided that this paragraph shall not be deemed to authorize any payment, transfer, or withdrawal, or other dealing, with respect to any property which is subject to the proviso of paragraph 1.  

4. *Application of license to nationals of countries licensed hereby who are also nationals of excepted countries.* Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply with respect to any national of a country licensed hereby who is also a national of any excepted, country, *provided, however,* that for the purpose only of this license the following shall be deemed not be nationals of an excepted country: 

a. Any individual residing in a country licensed hereby, except any citizen or subject of Germany or Japan who at any time on or since December 7, 1941 has been within the territory of either such country or within any other territory while it was designated as „enemy territory” under General Ruling No. 11;  

b. Any partnership, assocation, corporation, or other organization, organized under the laws of a country licensed hereby, unless it is a national of Germany or Japan.    

5. *Definition.* As used in this license, the term „excepted country” shall mean any country excepted in paragraph 1.  

6. *Effective date.* The effective date of this general license shall be December 7, 1945, except that it shall be October 5, 1945 as to France and November 20, 1945 as to Belgium.     
FRED. M. VINSON,  *Secretary of the Treasury.*   

Treasury Department Foreign Funds Control December 29, 1945 
###GENERAL LICENSE NO. 95

###UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 8389, AS AMENDED, EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 9193, AS AMENDED, SECTION 5 (b) OF THE TRADING WITH THE ENEMY ACT, AS AMENDED BY THE FIRST WAR POWERS ACT, 1941, RELATING TO FOREIGN FUNDS CONTROL.

*Property certified by Governments of specified countries*  

1. *Certification by governments of countries, specified herein.* Whenever a designated agent of the government of any country specified herein has certified in writing that no foreign country designated in the Order or national thereof, other than a country specified herein or national thereof, has at any time between the effective date of the Order and the date of certification had any interest in any property subject to the proviso of paragraph 1 of General License No. 94, the property so certified is hereby licensed to be regarded as property in which no blocked country or national thereof has or has had any interest.  

2. *Waiver of Section 2A of the Order and General Ruling No. 5.* The provisions of Section 2A of the Order and of General Ruling No. 5 are waived with respect to any security to which a certification under the preceding paragraph is attached.  

3. *Application of license to certain nationals of countries specified herein.* This license shall not apply with respect to any national of a country specified herein who is a national of another foreign country designated in the Order and not specified herein, *provided, however,* that for the purpose only of this license the following shall be deemed nationals only of a country specified herein: 

a. Any individual residing in a country specified herein, *except* any citizen or subject of Germany or Japan who at any time on or since December 7, 1941 has been within the territory of either such country or within any other territory while it was designated as „enemy territory” under General Ruling No. 11;  

b. Any partnership, assooiation, corporation, or other organization, organized under the laws of a country specified herein, unless it is a national of Germany, Japan, Bulgaria, Hungary, or Rumania.    

4. *Definitions.* As used in this license, 

a. the term „country specified herein” means the following: 

1. France, effective October 5, 1945;  

2. Belgium, effective November 20, 1945;  

3. Norway, effective December 29, 1945;  

4. Finland, effective December 29, 1945;  

5. The Netherlands, effective February 13, 1946;   and each country specified herein shall be deemed to include any colony or other territory subject to its jurisdiction.  

b. the term „foreign country designated in the Order” shall be deemed to include countries licensed by General License No. 94.     FRED. M. VINSON,  *Secretary of the Treasury.*    

Treasury Department Foreign Funds Control February 13, 1946. 
###AMENDMENT TO GENERAL LICENSE NO. 95

###UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 8389, AS AMENDED, EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 9193, AS AMENDED, SECTION 5 (b) OF THE TRADING WITH THE ENEMY ACT, AS AMENDED BY THE FIRST WAR POWERS ACT, 1941, RELATING TO FOREIGN FUNDS CONTROL.

Wijzigt deze notawisseling.    

MINISTERIE VAN FINANCIËN. 's-Gravenhage, March 20, 1946. The Honorable Fred. M. Vinson, Secretary of the Treasury, WASHINGTON D.C. My dear Mr. Secretary, The provisions of the letter of assurances of January 22, 1946 will apply with respect to securities issued in the United States which are located in the Netherlands whenever such securities are made the subject of any certification under the proposed license. Moreover, the mutual principles and objectives referred to in the letter are being applied to American securities in the Netherlands, as the Netherlands Government is investigating the ownership of all such securities. This is done in accordance with the provisions of the Royal Decree of November 16, 1945, F 272, which sets up a Registration Bureau for alle securities located in the Netherlands. A certification will be affixed to each security issued in the United States which, in the course of the procedure mentioned above, does not appear to be excluded from the benefits of the license while other such securities will be appropriately segregated until the question of their final disposition is resolved. In accordance with the provisions of the letter of assurances the Treasury Department will be informed of all securities so segregated. Accept, my dear Mr. Secretary, the expression of my high esteem, P. LIEFTINCK,  *Minister of Finance.*    

MINISTERIE VAN FINANCIËN. 's-Gravenhage, 22 Januari 1946. Zijner Excellentie Fred. M. Vinson Secretaris van de Schatkist WASHINGTON D.C. Excellentie, In besprekingen, welke onlangs tusschen vertegenwoordigers van mijn Departement en leden van het Departement van Financiën van de Vereenigde Staten werden gehouden, kwam tot uitdrukking, dat Uw Departement thans bereid is een regeling te treffen tot vrijgave van de Nederlandsche activa, die thans geblokkeerd zijn krachtens Executive Order no 8389 en de Trading with the Enemy Act van 1917, zooals gewijzigd. Ik ben dankbaar voor de voortvarendheid, waarmede de Regeering van de Vereenigde Staten de Nederlandsche activa op 10 Mei 1940 heeft geblokkeerd, en voor de daarop gevolgde uitvoering van de contrôle van buitenlandsche fondsen, die opmerkelijk goed in overeenstemming was met de beginselen en oogmerken van de Gemeenschappelijke Verklaring van 5 Januari 1943, waartoe, zooals U zich zal herinneren, de Nederlandsche Regeering, toen in Londen gevestigd, mede het initiatief genomen heeft, en met de bepalingen van Resolutie VI van de Monetaire en Financieele Conferentie der Vereenigde Volken, gehouden in Bretton Woods. De beginselen, die aan deze Resolutie ten grondslag liggen, zijn sindsdien toegepast in de thans van kracht zijnde Nederlandsche wetgeving. Ik heb de algemeene vergunning no. 95 van Uw Departement, die, naar is voorgesteld, ook van toepassing verklaard zou kunnen worden op Nederland, bestudeerd. Na overleg met mijn ambtgenooten bevestig ik in dit verband mijn instemming met de volgende punten: 

1. De bevoegde Nederlandsche autoriteiten zullen de verantwoordelijkheid op zich nemen voor de uitvoering van de regeling van certificatie, voorzien in de vergunning. Geen eigendom zal worden gecertificeerd, dan nadat de Nederlandsche Regering door een passend onderzoek heeft vastgesteld, dat het eigendom niet is uitgesloten van toepassing van de vergunning. Er wordt overeengekomen, dat moeilijkheden, die bij de uitvoering van de regeling, in dit schrijven uiteengezet, zouden kunnen prijzen, van tijd tot tijd door onze beide Departementen zullen worden bezien teneinde tot wederzijds bevredigende oplossingen te komen en een vlot verloop van de uitvoering der regeling te verzekeren. Bovendien zal ten aanzien van van tijd tot tijd speciaal daartoe door de Schatkist van de Vereenigde Staten aangegeven rekeningen overleg gepleegd worden met Uw Departement, alvorens tot de certificatie, voorzien in de voorgestelde algemeene vergunning, zal worden overgegaan.  

2. Er wordt overeengekomen, dat binnen het kader van de algemeene vergunning geen certificaties zullen worden afgegeven, die: 

a. de voltooiïng van transacties zouden vergemakkelijken die de belangen van een vijand of van ten behoeve van een vijand handelende personen zouden kunnen bevorderen;  

b. de status quo van geblokkeerde eigendommen in de Vereenigde Staten, waarbij een vijand direct of indirect belang heeft, zouden wijzigen. Indien een eigendom waarbij een vijandelijk belang aanwezig is, door onachtzaamheid of bij vergissing onder de vergunning overgemaakt is, zal met Uw Departement overleg gepleegd worden en zullen op verzoek daarvan passende maatregelen getroffen worden, opdat het eigendom of het equivalent daarvan weer wordt teruggestort op de rekening, waarop het vóór de overmaking geboekt was, of op zoodanige andere rekeningen als door U zullen worden aangegeven, doch alleen voorzoover dit eigendom of zijn equivalent zal worden aangetroffen onder de activa van den eersten verkrijger van den oorspronkelijken eigenaar.    

3. Ten aanzien van het eigendom van eenige vennootschap, vereeniging, corporatie of andere instelling, gevestigd volgens de Nederlandsche wetten, die, wegens de daarbij betrokken belangen van niet-ingezetenen van Nederland, ook onderdaan is van een ander onder het bevriezingsbesluit begrepen land, in den zin van de algemeene vergunning no. 95, zal geen certificatie worden afgegeven, voordat van de Regeering van het andere land volledige verzekering is verkregen, dat geen onderdaan van Duitschland, Japan, Bulgarije, Hongarije of Roemenië betrokken is bij den eigendom of contrôle van zoodanige belangen. Eenvoudigheidshalve zullen de Nederlandsche autoriteiten echter, op haar eigen verantwoordelijkheid, de eigendommen kunnen certificeeren van elke instelling, waarin de mate van zoodanige belangen 25 % niet te boven gaat. Met betrekking tot eenig eigendom, dat niet valt onder het vorig lid en waarbij een ander in de algemeene vergunning no. 95 aangeduid land, of een onderdaan daarvan een belang heeft, zal mijn Regeering niet certificeeren, voordat van de andere Regeering volle verzekering verkregen is, dat dit belang zelf krachtens de vergunning voor certificatie in aanmerking komt. Er wordt echter overeengekomen, dat het verkrijgen van een zoodanige verzekering niet noodig zal zijn, waar de waarde van het betreffende goed $ 1000.— niet te boven gaat.  

4. Onze beide Departementen zullen gezamenlijk er naar streven, dat alle Duitsche en andere vijandelijke activa, zoowel in de Vereenigde Staten als in Nederland, opgespoord en gecontroleerd worden, ten einde oorlogsmisdadigers en mogelijke leiders van het ondergrondsche werk van den vijand te berooven van middelen van bestaan en van mogelijkheden om den vrede in gevaar te brengen. In het bijzonder zullen onze twee Departementen alle noodige stappen ondernemen om te voorkomen, dat de financieele faciliteiten, die onze twee landen elkander zouden verleenen, door iemand, onderworpen aan de Nederlandsche of Amerikaansche jurisdictie, op zoodanige wijze zouden worden benut, dat vijanden of hun agenten activa in de Vereenigde Staten of in Nederland zouden kunnen verbergen. Onze beide Departementen zullen alle inlichtingen, die noodig zijn om deze taak uit te voeren, uitwisselen, en in het bijzonder zal de Nederlandsche Regeering, die reeds een krachtig program voor het elimineeren van economische en financieele belangen van den vijand in Nederland heeft ondernomen, Uw Regeering volledig op de hoogte houden ten aanzien van eigendommen in de Vereenigde Staten onder een Nederlandschen naam aangehouden, wanneer zij aanleiding heeft om te vermoeden, dat er bij die eigendommen direct of indirect een vijandelijk belang aanwezig is. Mijn Regeering zal evenzoo de Uwe volledig inlichten omtrent Nederlandsche instellingen, die eigendommen in de Vereenigde Staten hebben, waarbij een vijand belang zou kunnen hebben. Het is natuurlijk wel verstaan, dat Uw Departement alle inlichtingen over dit onderwerp ter beschikking van de betrokken Nederlandsche autoriteiten zal stellen.  

5. Ten gevolge van de bescherming, die aan Nederlandsche activa werd verleend, en van andere omstandigheden, die zich gedurende den oorlog voordeden, zijn Amerikaansche crediteuren tijdelijk verstoken geweest van zekere rechtsmiddelen, die normaliter voor hen opengestaan zouden hebben om hun belangen te beschermen. De Nederlandsche Regeering stelt voor, in overeenstemming met de jarenlang door haar gevoerde practijk, aan debiteuren in Nederland toe te staan hun schulden van overheidsorganen, personen of firma's in de Vereenigde Staten af te wikkelen en aan hen daartoe binnen de grenzen van haar middelen adviezen ter beschikking te stellen.  

6. Ten aanzien van het overmaken van fondsen van Nederland naar de Vereenigde Staten is het de bedoeling van mijn Regeering de deviezenbeperkingen te verzachten tot den volsten omvang, dien de deviezenpositie van ieder deel van het Koninkrijk zal toelaten. In dit verband zullen de bevoegde Nederlandsche autoriteiten alle betalingen toestaan voor behoorlijk goedgekeurde zaken- of handelstransacties, daaronder begrepen de overmaking van saldi, die uit deze bronnen voortgekomen en gedurende den oorlog aangegroeid zijn. De bevoegde Nederlandsche autoriteiten zullen bovendien aanvragen om vergunning tot het overmaken van kapitaal van Nederland naar de Vereenigde Staten zorgvuldig onderzoeken, indien dergelijke overmakingen een nuttig economisch of commercieel doel zouden kunnen dienen, en waar overmaking van kleine bedragen van groot belang voor de betrokken partijen is. Zij zullen in denzelfden geest verzoeken om vergunning tot het overmaken van kapitaal naar de Vereenigde Staten, ingediend door in Nederland verblijvende Amerikaansche onderdanen, onderzoeken.   Het zal Uwe Regeering bekend zijn, dat terstond na de bevrijding van Nederland de door den vijand getroffen maatregelen ter controleering van buitenlandsche eigendommen werden vervallen verklaard. Beheerders over buitenlandsche eigendommen treden thans alleen op, indien en voor zoover de oorspronkelijke eigenaren niet in staat zijn voor zichzelf op te treden. Er is thans een administratieve regeling getroffen krachtens welke deze afwezige eigenaren op hun verzoek weer in hun rechten hersteld kunnen worden. Mijn Regeering heeft geen beperkende maatregelen genomen ten aanzien van de activa van onderdanen van de Vereenigde Staten met het doel eigendommen, waarbij een vijandelijk belang zou kunnen bestaan, te controleeren, behalve in bijzondere gevallen, waar mijn Regeering reden heeft te gelooven, dat contrôle noodig is om overmaking te voorkomen van eigendommen, waarbij een vijand belang heeft, of om te vermijden, dat transacties worden voltooid die direct of indirect ten voordeele van een vijand zouden kunnen zijn. Eigendommen in Nederland van onderdanen van de Vereenigde Staten zullen op een even gunstigen voet behandeld worden als thans geldt of in de toekomst gelden zal ten aanzien van onderdanen van eenig ander land. Ontvang, Excellentie, de uitdrukking van mijn bijzondere hoogachting, P. LIEFTINCK,  *Minister van Financiën.*    

DE SECRETARIS VAN DE SCHATKIST WASHINGTON. Washington, 11 Februari 1946. Excellentie, Met genoegen heb ik de verzekeringen ontvangen, vervat in Uw schrijven dd. 22 Januari 1946, aangaande de algemeene vergunning, die door vertegenwoordigers van onze beide Departementen besproken is. Gelet op de verklaringen, vervat in Uw brief, verheugt het mij U te kunnen berichten, dat op 13 Februari 1946, door wijziging van Algemeene Vergunning no. 95, Nederland toegevoegd zal worden aan de landen, waarop die vergunning van toepassing is. Ingesloten vindt U te Uwer informatie een afschrift van de vergunning en van de wijziging daarvan. Hoogachtend, FRED. M. VINSON,  *Secretaris van de Schatkist.*  Zijner Excellentie PIETER LIEFTINCK Minister van Financiën Ministerie van Financiën 's-Gravenhage, Nederland. Bijlagen.   

Departement van de Schatkist Contrôle van Buitenlandsche Fondsen 7 December 1945. 
###ALGEMEENE VERGUNNING No. 94

###KRACHTENS EXECUTIVE ORDER No. 8389, ZOOALS GEWIJZIGD, EXECUTIVE ORDER No. 9193, ZOOALS GEWIJZIGD, ARTIKEL 5 (b) VAN DE TRADING WITH THE ENEMY ACT, ZOOALS GEWIJZIGD DOOR DE EERSTE WAR POWERS ACT 1941 MET BETREKKING TOT DE CONTROLE VAN BUITENLANDSCHE FONDSEN.

*Algemeene vergunning voor bepaalde landen.*  

1. *Algemeene vergunning voor geblokkeerde landen onder bepaalde voorwaarden.* Een algemeene vergunning wordt hierbij verleend om alle geblokkeerde landen en hun onderdanen (met uitzondering van de volgende landen en hun onderdanen: 1. Duitschland en Japan; 2. Portugal, Spanje, Zweden, Zwitserland, Liechtenstein en Tanger) te beschouwen alsof deze geen vreemde landen zijn, aangewezen in het Besluit, mits 

a. eenige eigendom, waarbij op den dag van inwerkingtreding hiervan belang had: 1. eenig geblokkeerd land (met inbegrip van landen, waaraan hierbij vergunning verleend wordt) of inwoner daarvan; of 2. eenige andere vennootschap, vereeniging, corporatie of andere instelling, die een onderdaan was van een geblokkeerd land (met inbegrip de landen, waaraan hierbij vergunning verleend wordt) wegens het belang daarin van een zoodanig land of inwoner daarvan; of  

b. eenig inkomen uit dergelijk eigendom, ontstaan op of na den dag van inwerkingtreding hiervan,   beschouwd zal blijven worden als eigendom, waarbij een geblokkeerd land of een onderdaan daarvan belang heeft en dat geen betaling, overmaking of dispositie of andere handeling met betrekking tot zoodanigen eigendom zal kunnen plaats hebben of beschouwd worden te zijn toegestaan ingevolge dit lid.  

2. *Transacties, ingevolge andere vergunningen toegestaan, zonder inachtneming van zekere beperkingen.* Met betrekking tot eigendommen, vallende onder het bepaalde in lid 1, zal elke transactie, die niet betrekking heeft op eenig uitgesloten land of onderdaan daarvan, die ingevolge een vergunning is toegestaan (anders dan Algemeene Vergunningen Nos. 1, 1A, 4, 27, 30A, 58 en 75 of een andere vergunning, die alleen overmaking toestaat tusschen geblokkeerde rekeningen van denzelfden persoon onderling, of die wijzigingen in den vorm van belegging van geblokkeerd vermogen toestaat) kunnen worden uitgevoerd, ongeacht de beperkingen van zulk een vergunning, voor zoover zij betrekking hebben op de wijze van tenuitvoerlegging van dergelijke transacties.  

3. *Vergunning voor bepaalde andere transacties.* Deze vergunning geeft ook toestemming voor elke transactie, die ingevolge Algemeene Vergunning No. 63 uitgevoerd zou kunnen worden, indien de landen, die hierbij vergunning krijgen, deel uitmaakten van het handelsgebied, waarvoor een algemeene vergunning werd uitgevaardigd, mits dit lid niet geacht zal worden en toestemming in te houden voor een betaling, overmaking of dispositie of andere handeling met betrekking tot eenig eigendom dat onderworpen is aan het bepaalde in lid 1.  

4. *Toepassing van de vergunning op onderdanen van landen, die hierbij vergunning krijgen, maar die tevens onderdanen zijn van uitgesloten landen.* Lid 1 en 2 zullen niet van toepassing zijn op een onderdaan van een land, dat hierbij vergunning krijgt, die tevens onderdaan is van een uitgesloten land, zulks echter met dien verstande, dat uitsluitend met het oog op deze vergunning niet als onderdaan van een uitgesloten land beschouwd zal worden: 

a. eenig natuurlijk persoon, die ingezetene is van een land, dat hierbij vergunning krijgt, met uitzondering van alle burgers of onderdanen van Duitschland of Japan, die te eeniger tijd op of na 7 December 1941 zich binnen het grondgebied van een van die landen bevonden hebben of binnen een ander grondgebied gedurende den tijd, dat dit ingevolge Algemeene Regel No. 11 als „vijandelijk gebied” werd aangemerkt;  

b eenige vennootschap, vereeniging, corporatie of andere instelling, opgericht in overeenstemming met de wettelijke bepalingen van een land, dat hierbij vergunning verkrijgt, tenzij die instelling onderdaan is van Duitschland of Japan.    

5. *Definitie.* Onder „uitgesloten land” zal in deze vergunning worden verstaan elk land, dat uitgezonderd is in lid 1.  

6. *Dag van inwerkingtreding.* De dag van inwerkingtreding van deze algemeene vergunning zal zijn 7 December 1945, met dien verstande, dat deze datum voor Frankrijk zal zijn 5 October 1945, en voor België 20 November 1945.   FRED. M. VINSON,  *Secretaris van de Schatkist.*    

Departement van de Schatkist Contrôle van Buitenlandsche Fondsen 29 December 1945. 
###ALGEMEENE VERGUNNING No. 95

###KRACHTENS EXECUTIVE ORDER No. 8389, ZOOALS GEWIJZIGD, EXECUTIVE ORDER No. 9193, ZOOALS GEWIJZIGD, ARTIKEL 5 (b) VAN DE TRADING WITH THE ENEMY ACT, ZOOALS GEWIJZIGD DOOR DE EERSTE WAR POWERS ACT 1941 MET BETREKKING TOT DE CONTROLE VAN BUITENLANDSCHE FONDSEN.

*Eigendommen gecertificeerd door Regeeringen van aangeduide landen.*  

1. *Afgifte van certificaten door de Regeeringen van hierin aangeduide landen.* Wanneer een speciaal daarvoor aangewezen agent van de regeering van een hierin aangeduid land schriftelijk heeft verklaard, dat geen vreemd land, aangeduid in het Besluit, of onderdaan daarvan, tenzij een hierin aangeduid land of onderdaan daarvan, te eeniger tijd tusschen den dag van inwerkingtreding van het Besluit en den dag van certificatie eenig belang had bij eenig eigendom, vallende onder het bepaalde in lid 1 van Algemeene Vergunning No. 94, zal het aldus gecertificeerde eigendom mogen worden beschouwd als eigendom, waarbij geen geblokkeerd land of onderdaan daarvan eenig belang heeft of gehad heeft.  

2. *Intrekking van artikel 2A van het Besluit en van Algemeene Bepaling No. 5.* Het bepaalde in artikel 2A van het Besluit en in Algemeene Bepaling No. 5 wordt ingetrokken met betrekking tot elk effect, waaraan een certificatie ingevolge het bepaalde in het vorige lid is gehecht.  

3. *Toepassing van de vergunning op bepaalde onderdanen van hierin aangeduide landen.* Deze vergunning zal niet van toepassing zijn met betrekking tot een onderdaan van een hierin aangeduid land, die tevens onderdaan is van een ander vreemd land, aangeduid in het Besluit en niet hierin aangeduid, met dien verstande echter, dat uitsluitend voor het doel van deze vergunning alleen als onderdaan van een hierin aangeduid land zal worden beschouwd: 

a. een natuurlijk persoon, ingezetene van een hierin aangeduid land, met uitzondering van iederen burger of onderdaan van Duitschland of Japan, die te eeniger tijd op of na 7 December 1941 zich bevonden heeft binnen het grondgebied van een van die beide landen of binnen een ander grondgebied gedurende den tijd, dat dit ingevolge Algemeene Bepaling No. 11 als „vijandelijk grondgebied” was aangeduid;  

b. iedere vennootschap, vereeniging, corporatie of andere instelling, opgericht overeenkomstig de wettelijke bepalingen van een hierin aangeduid land, tenzij die instelling tevens onderdaan is van Duitschland, Japan, Bulgarije, Hongarije of Roemenië.    

4. *Definities.* Als gebezigd in deze vergunning: 

a. beteekent de bepaling „hierin aangeduid land”: 

1. Frankrijk, van 5 October 1945 af;  

2. België, van 20 November 1945 af;  

3. Noorwegen, van 29 December 1945 af;  

4. Finland, van 29 December 1945 af;  

5. Nederland, van 13 Februari af;   en elk hierin aangeduid land zal geacht worden te omvatten alle koloniën en andere gebiedsdeelen, die aan zijn jurisdictie zijn onderworpen.  

b. zal de uitdrukking „vreemd land aangegeven in het Besluit” geacht worden te omvatten de landen, die in Algemeene Vergunning No. 94 vergunning verkregen hebben.     FRED. M. VINSON,  *Secretaris van de Schatkist.*    

Departement van de Schatkist Contrôle van Buitenlandsche Fondsen 18 Februari 1946. 
###WIJZIGING ALGEMEENE VERGUNNING No. 95

###KRACHTENS EXECUTIVE ORDER No. 8389, ZOOALS GEWIJZIGD, EXECUTIVE ORDER No. 9193, ZOOALS GEWIJZIGD, ARTIKEL 5 (b) VAN DE TRADING WITH THE ENEMY ACT, ZOOALS GEWIJZIGD DOOR DE EERSTE WAR POWERS ACT 1941 MET BETREKKING TOT DE CONTROLE VAN BUITENLANDSCHE FONDSEN.

Wijzigt deze notawisseling.    

MINISTERIE VAN FINANCIËN. 's-Gravenhage, 20 Maart 1946. Zijner Excellentie Fred. M. Vinson, Secretaris van de Schatkist WASHINGTON D.C. Excellentie, De voorzieningen, bevestigd in mijn brief van 22 Januari 1946, zullen worden toegepast op in de Vereenigde Staten uitgegeven effecten, die in Nederland berusten, wanneer dergelijke effecten onderworpen zullen worden aan een certificatie krachtens de voorgestelde vergunning. Daarenboven worden de wederzijds overeengekomen grondslagen en doeleinden, waarnaar in den brief is verwezen, toegepast op Amerikaansche effecten in Nederland nu de Nederlandsche Regeering doende is een onderzoek in te stellen naar den eigendom van al dergelijke effecten. Dit wordt gedaan overeenkomstig het bepaalde in het Koninklijk Besluit van 16 November 1945, F 272, waarbij een Registratiekantoor voor alle effecten, die in Nederland berusten, wordt ingesteld. Een certificatie zal worden gehecht aan elk effect, uitgegeven in de Vereenigde Staten, dat, in den loop van de bovenbedoelde procedure, niet blijkt uitgesloten te zijn van de voordeelen van de vergunning, terwijl andere dergelijke effecten naar behooren zullen worden apart gehouden tot de vraag van hun uiteindelijke bestemming is opgelost. Overeenkomstig het bepaalde in den bovengenoemden brief zal het Departement van de Schatkist omtrent alle aldus apart gehouden effecten worden ingelicht. Ontvang, Excellentie, de uitdrukking van mijn bijzondere hoogachting, P. LIEFTINCK,  *Minister van Financiën.*    
