<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Overeenkomst betreffende de vrijwillige bijdragen bestemd voor de uitvoering van het project tot het behoud van de tempels van Aboe Simbel

####Agreement concerning the voluntary Contributions to be given for the Execution of the Project to save the Abu Simbel Temples

Considering that, as already proclaimed on several occasions by the General Conference of Unesco, the Abu Simbel monuments, now endangered by the construction of the Aswan High Dam which the United Arab Republic has undertaken in order to ensure the country's economic development and to promote the welfare of its peoples, form part of the Cultural heritage of the entire human race, Recalling the statements of the President of the United Arab Republic concerning the preservation of this human legacy which his country holds in trust, Noting that the salvage project adopted by the Government of the United Arab Republic, involving the cutting of the temples into sections and their reconstruction at a higher level, has been subsequently recommended by the various competent technical committees, and accepted by the Executive Committee of the Campaign to save the Monuments of Nubia, Anxious to play a part in ensuring that the Abu Simbel monuments survive to be admired and treasured by future generations, Responding to the appeals for international co-operation launched for this purpose by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,   The Contracting Member States and Associate Members of Unesco agree as follows:    

### Article  I  

1.  Every Contracting Member State or Associate Member of Unesco undertakes to contribute to the execution of the project to save the Abu Simbel temples by paying into the Trust Fund established for this purpose by the Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, hereinafter referred to as “the Director-General”, the amounts set forth in the Annex to this Agreement, in the currency, on the dates and under the conditions specified in the said Annex.   
2.  The Director-General will not transmit these amounts to the competent authorities of the United Arab Republic until such time as the Government of the United Arab Republic has finally given an assurance that it will undertake the operations to save the Abu Simbel temples and take the necessary measures for their satisfactory completion and that it will conclude for that purpose, with one or more contractors, the contract for the work described in the specifications drawn up by the Ministry of Culture and National Guidance of the United Arab Republic (Salvage of the Abu Simbel Temples, Project II).   

### Article  II  

1.  The Director-General will obtain all the necessary particulars regarding the payment dates with which the United Arab Republic will have to reckon in executing the contract referred to in Article I, paragraph 2. He will also receive periodical progress reports.   
2.  He will pay the amounts which he receives, in conformity with the terms of Article I, paragraph 1 and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Agreement between Unesco and the Government of the United Arab Republic concerning the salvage of the Abu Simbel Temples to the appropriate authorities of the United Arab Republic, taking the time-table of payments due and the progress of work into account.   

### Article  III  

The Director-General will communicate a periodical information report, at least every six months, the Contracting Member States and Associate Members of Unesco concerning the implementation of this Agreement and the progress of the operations to save the Abu Simbel temples.  

### Article  IV  

This Agreement shall enter into force for each contracting Member State and Associate Member of Unesco upon its signature or, if it is signed subject to ratification or acceptance, on the date of the deposit of an instrument of ratification or acceptance with the Director-General.  

### Article  V  

The Director-General will hold at the disposal of contracting Member States and Associate Members of Unesco the sums which the latter had contributed under this Agreement if the Government of the United Arab Republic does not conclude the contract for the work described in the specifications drawn up by the Ministry of Culture and National Guidance (Salvage of the Abu Simbel Temples, Project II) or if the Government, having concluded the said contract, denounced it under the conditions laid down in the Agreement between Unesco and the Government of the United Arab Republic concerning the salvage of the Abu Simbel Temples.  

### Article  VI  

The Director-General shall inform the Member States and Associate Members of Unesco of the signatures affixed to this Agreement, of the terms of the undertakings entered into in the Annex to this Agreement as well as of the deposit of the instruments of ratification or acceptance mentioned in Article IV of this Agreement.  

### Article  VII  

In accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations, this Agreement will be registered at the United Nations Secretariat, at the request of the Director-General.  

### Article  VIII  

This Agreement is drawn up in English, French, Russian and Spanish, all four texts being equally authentic.  

DONE in Cairo this ninth day of November 1963 in a single copy, which will be deposited in the Archives of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and certified copies of which will be communicated to all signatory Member States and Associate Members, as well as to the United Nations. IN FAITH WHEREOF, the undersigned representatives, duly authorized to that effect, have signed this Agreement.  

### Annex  

####concerning the Contributions referred to in Article I of the Agreement

*Autriche*  Le Gouvernement de l'Autriche s'engage à verser au Fonds de dépôt institué à cet effet par le Directeur général, à partir de l'année 1965, la somme de 25.000 dollars des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, à raison de cinq annuités de 5.000 dollars. Date: 18 novembre 1963 Signature: A. PHILIPPOVICH  *España*  España se compromete a hacer entrega al Fondo Fiduciario instituído a tal efecto por el Director General una suma en libras egipcias equivalente a 270.000 (dos cientos setenta mil) dólares de los Estados Unidos de América con cargo a las disponibilidades que el Gobierno español posea en la cuenta de „clearing” con el Gobierno de la República Arabe Unida y a efectuar en los plazos que el Gobierno español oportunamente precisará en el curso del actual mes de noviembre par carta al Director General de la Unesco. Fecha: 9 de noviembre de 1963 Firma: Ad referendum R. MARTIN HERRERO  *France*  Le Gouvernement français s'engage à verser au Fonds de dépôt institué à cet effet par le Directeur général la contrevaleur en livres égyptiennes de cinq millions de francs sur les avoirs bloqués en République Arabe Unie appartenant à des ressortissants français, le versement devant être fait en cinq annuités égales, le premier en 1964. Le Gouvernement français prend cet engagement sous la réserve de l'accord du Parlement. Date: 9 novembre 1963 Signature: OLIVIER DE SAYVE  *India*  The Government of India undertake to offer for the project for the preservation of the Abu Simbel temples services and equipment as well as supplies of other goods produced in India, as required by the Government of the United Arab Republic, up to a value of 8 million rupees spread over seven years 1963-69. The first instalment valued at Rs 360.000 would be made available during 1963-64. Date: 9th November 1963 Signature: E. POUCHPA DASS  *Italie*  L'Italie s'engage à verser au Fonds de dépôt institué à cet effet par le Directeur Général de l'UNESCO en monnaie des Etats-Unis la somme de $ 695.200 aux dates et pour les montants partiels suivants:  

| --- | --- |
|:---|:---|
| le 30 juin 1964 .....  | $ 321.027  |
| le 31 décembre 1964 ..  | $ 256.820  |
| le 31 décembre 1965 ..  | $ 117.353  |

Date: le 9 novembre 1963 Signature: GIAN FRANCO POMPEI  *Libya*  Libya undertakes to pay into the Trust Fund established for the purpose by the Director-General the sum of 19.500 dollars of the United States of America in yearly instalments up to 1968. This sum is in addition to the sum of 6.500 dollars already paid. Date: 14 November 1963 Signature: K. ELATRASH  *Mali*  Le Mali s'engage à verser au Fonds de dépôt institué à cet effet par le Directeur général, en monnaie malienne, la somme de 500.000 francs maliens. Date: 9 novembre 1963 Signature: MODIBO DIALLO  *United Kingdom*  Her Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom undertake to pay into the Trust Fund established for the purpose by the Director-General the equivalent of not less than United States Dollars Two Hundred and Ten Thousand in Egyptian currency, subject to parliamentary approval for the provision of these funds and as soon as such approval has been given. Date: 9 November 1963 Signature: H. BEELEY  *Yougoslavie*  La République Socialiste Fédérative de Yougoslavie s'engage à verser au Fonds de dépôt institué à cet effet par le Directeur général la somme de 226.000. - dollars des Etats-Unis d'Amérique en sept tranches égales. La première tranche, pour l'année 1962, a été versée au Fonds de dépôt en décembre 1962, et les six autres seront versées au Fonds en décembre 1963, septembre 1964, septembre 1965, septembre 1966, septembre 1967 et septembre 1968. Date: 9 novembre 1963 Signature: BRANCO NOVAKOVIĆ   

####Final Act of the Meeting of Member States and Associate Members of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization prepared to make voluntary contributions towards the execution of the project to save the Abu Simbel Temples

1. The Meeting of Member States and Associate Members of Unesco prepared to make voluntary contributions towards the execution of the project to save the Abu Simbel temples was held in Cairo on 8 and 9 November 1963. The Governments of the following States were represented at the Meeting: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bolivia, Brazil, Cambodia, Cuba, Cyprus, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Holy See, India, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Mali, The Netherlands, Pakistan, Qatar, Spain, Sweden, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom, United States of America, Yugoslavia.  

2. The Meeting proceeded with the consideration of the draft agreement concerning the voluntary contributions to be given for the execution of the project to save the Abu Simbel temples which had been transmitted to Member States and Associate Members of Unesco by the Director-General and which, after some modifications, had received a favourable recommendation from the Executive Committee of the Campaign to Save the Monuments of Nubia in the course of its sixth session held in Cairo from 5 to 7 November 1963.  

3. The Meeting adopted the final text of this Agreement and decided that it would be signed on 9 November 1963 in Cairo. Thereafter, the Agreement would remain open for signature at Unesco Headquarters in Paris by all Member States and Associate Members who had not signed it in Cairo.  

4. The Meeting took note of the declarations which were made in the course of the meeting by the following States:  *Bolivia*  On behalf of the Government of Bolivia I have the satisfaction of announcing that, in view of the artistic importance of the monuments of Abu Simbel and in order to safeguard them, my Government undertakes to contribute the modest sum of $ 7,000 of the United States of America which will be paid by instalments starting from the present year up to and including 1969. This authorization has been ratified by the Government of my country by means of a cable which I received yesterday.  *Cambodia*  Malgré l'obligation de conserver et de restaurer ses propres monuments, le Gouvernement royal du Cambodge a tenu à participer à cette vaste campagne de solidarité internationale en décidant d'apporter une contribution, à titre symbolique, de 5.000 dollars des Etats-Unis d'Amérique à cette oeuvre de sauvetage.  *Cuba*  The Cuban Revolutionary Government has approved a contribution in cash of the amount of 160,000 Pesos as a voluntary quota to save the said monuments. This sum will be paid by year until 1969.  *Fédéral Republic of Germany*  La République fédérale d'Allemagne a prouvé l'intérêt qu'elle prend dans cette action par le déplacement du temple de Kalabcha, entreprise qui a commencé il y a deux ans et a pu être achevée il y a quelques jours. Le coût de cette opération s'élève à approximativement 7 ou 8 millions de DM. La question de savoir si la contribution de la République fédérale d'Allemagne pourra être étendue à la sauvegarde des temples d'Abou Simbel est toujours en discussion et dépend de la décision des autorités compétentes dans le cadre de la constitution. Pour cette raison, le Gouvernement de la République fédérale d'Allemagne ne peut pas signer actuellement „l'accord relatif à l'aide volontaire à fournir pour l'exécution du projet de sauvegarde des temples d'Abou Simbel” et, pour la même raison, le représentant de l'Ambassade de la République fédérale d'Allemagne au Caire n'est non plus autorisé de signer un acte élaboré par cette conférence.  *France*  Le Gouvernement français s'engage à verser au Fonds de dépôt institué à cet effet par le Directeur général la contrevaleur en livres égyptiennes de cinq millions de francs sur les avoirs bloqués en République arabe unie appartenant à des ressortissants français, le versement devant être fait en cinq annuités égales, le premier en 1964. Le Gouvernement français prend cet engagement sous la réserve de l'accord du Parlement.  *Greece*  Je confirme la décision du Gouvernement hellénique de contribuer à l'effort historique pour la sauvegarde des monuments de Nubie par la somme symbolique de 30.000 dollars des Etats-Unis d'Amérique.  *Holy See*  Au moment qui précède la signature des textes juridiques concernant la sauvegarde des temples d'Abou Simbel, je suis autorisé par le Saint-Siège à rappeler la contribution de dix mille dollars des Etats-Unis d'Amérique déjà apportée par lui à la Campagne en novembre 1961, indépendamment des accords.  *India*  The Government of India undertake to offer services, equipment and supplies of other goods produced in India and as required by the Government of the United Arab Republic, up to a value of 2,800,000 Rupees (approximately equivalent to 588,000 dollars of the United States of America) spread over seven years 1963 to 1969, the first instalment of which valued at 360,000 Rupees would be made available during 1963 - 1964.  *Italy*  L'Italie a versé une somme de 160.800 dollars des Etats-Unis d'Amérique en devises convertibles, laissant à l'Unesco la libre disponibilité de cette somme, mais exprimant l'espoir qu'elle pût servir au sauvetage d'Abou Simbel. A ces contributions, l'Italie est prête à ajouter une contribution ultérieure de 695.200 dollars des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. Cette contribution sera payée à l'Unesco en trois versements, aux dates et pour les montants suivants:  

|
|
| le 30 juin 1964  | $ 321.027  |
| le 31 décembre 1964  | $ 256.820  |
| le 31 décembre 1965  | $ 117.353  |

*Kuwait*  Desirous to contribute in preserving an important part of the human cultural heritage represented in the temples of Abu Simbel, and in securing a part of the hard currency needed for executing the project for preserving these temples, the Government of Kuwait undertakes to give a loan of 3,000,000 pounds sterling without interest, to be used for that purpose. All details and other facilities concerning this loan will be agreed upon by the proper authorities in the Governments of both Kuwait and the United Arab Republic.  *Libya*  On 30 October 1961, the Government of Libya has decided to contribute to the project to save the Abu Simbel temples the amount of 26,000 dollars of the United States of America. Libya has paid 6,500 dollars and will pay the rest yearly up to 1968.  *Mali*  Le Gouvernement du Mali s'engage à verser une contribution symbolique de 500.000 francs maliens en vue de sauvegarder les fabuleux trésors de l'humanité que constituent les temples d'Abou Simbel.  *Netherlands*  Apart from the amount of fl. 200,000 already paid into the Trust Fund, the Netherlands Government undertakes to pay into this fund established for the purpose by the Director-General of Unesco during the period of 1963 - 1970 (inclusive) a total amount of fl. 1,368,000. The yearly contributions of fl. 171,000 (equivalent of $ 47,500) will be subject each year to the approval of Parliament. At least 50 % of this amount will each year be paid into the Trust Fund in Dutch guilders. The currency in which the remaining part will be paid will be subject to discussions between the Netherlands and the United Arab Republic Governments.  *Pakistan*  The Government of Pakistan has already agreed to contribute a sum of 130,000 dollars of the United States of America in eight years for saving the Nubian monuments. Three instalments have already been paid in 1960, 1962 and 1963. The Embassy of Pakistan is not in a position right now to state the dates and amounts of the subsequent instalments.  *Qatar*  In the name of my Government, Qatar, I have the honour to declare that my Government has raised its contribution to 55,000 dollars of the United States of America and is ready to deliver it immediately.  *Spain*  Spain undertakes to pay to the Trust Fund established for the purpose by the Director-General a sum equivalent to $ 270,000 (two-hundred, seventy thousand dollars of the United States of America), subject to the funds available to the Spanish Government in the clearing account with the Government of the United Arab Republic; this sum will be paid in accordance with time-table which will be specified in a letter which will be addressed to the Director-General of Unesco in the course of the present month of November.  *Sweden*  As delegate of the Swedish Government, I am now authorized to pledge on behalf of my Government as a contribution to the salvation of the Abu Simbel temples an amount equivalent to five hundred thousand (500,000) dollars of the United States of America in Swedish convertible currency on the conditions mentioned in the agreement of Member States and Associate Members of Unesco, done in Cairo, November 9th 1963. A final agreement is subject to the approval of Parliament and ratification by the Government. I am also authorized to initial an annexed agreement subject to these conditions.  *United Kingdom*  I am authorized to state that the United Kingdom Government's contribution to the Trust Fund will be the equivalent in Egyptian pounds of not less than 210,000 dollars of the United States of America. I am further authorized to state that payment will be made as soon as Parliamentary approval has been given and that there are no other conditions attached to this contribution.  *United States of America*  The United States is gratified that a conference of Member States of Unesco offering contributions to the international project to save the temples of Abu Simbel has formulated an agreement governing the conditions under which such contributions will be made, and that the agreement will be open for signature of contributing countries on and after November 9 1963. Because of the differences in executive and parliamentary procedures of the several States, different conditions influence the timing of the signatures to be affixed to such agreement by the respective governments. The representatives of some States are prepared to sign the agreement at the time of the international conference on November 8. Others, including the United States, have concurred in the form of the agreement but will not sign the agreement until the necessary action has been taken either by the Cabinets of their governments or by their legislative bodies as may be required in each case. The United States reaffirms its intention to seek Congressional authorization for a contribution to the project for preserving the temples of Abu Simbel to be made in Egyptian pounds covering approximately one-third of the total cost of the project based on the present estimate of $ 36 millions, that is, a sum of $ 12 millions, provided a sound financial plan is developed for the project, and provided the conversion of Egyptian pounds shall not exceed the equivalent of $ 2 millions per year. It will be understood by the conference that the United States' offer is a conditional offer, not a legal commitment. Such a commitment, including the signing of the international agreement, will be undertaken only after the United States Congress has adopted the legislation appropriating the funds required for the United States contribution to the project.  *Yugoslavia*  La République socialiste fédérative de Yougoslavie s'engage à verser au Fonds de dépôt institué à cet effet par le Directeur général la somme de 226.000 dollars des Etats-Unis d'Amérique en sept tranches égales. La première tranche pour l'année 1962 a été versée au Fonds de dépôt en décembre 1962, et les six autres seront versées au Fonds en décembre 1963, septembre 1964, septembre 1965, septembre 1966, septembre 1967 et septembre 1968.  

5. The Meeting also took note of the information furnished by the Secretariat of Unesco concerning the contributions announced in various forms and, in some cases, subject to parliamentary approval, by Member States and Associate Members of Unesco who did not make any declaration at the Meeting and decided that a complete list of all these Member States and Associate Members together with indications regarding the amount of the contributions announced by them would be annexed to this Final Act.     
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned representatives have signed this Final Act. DONE in Cairo, this ninth day of November 1963, in a single original copy in the English and French languages, each text being equally authentic. The original will be deposited with the Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization who will send certified copies to all Member States and Associate Members of Unesco as well as to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.  

####Overeenkomst betreffende de vrijwillige bijdragen bestemd voor de uitvoering van het project tot het behoud van de tempels van Aboe Simbel

Overwegende dat, zoals reeds verscheidene malen door de Algemene Conferentie van de Unesco is verklaard, de monumenten van Aboe Simbel, die worden bedreigd door de bouw van de Assoeandam, die de Verenigde Arabische Republiek heeft ondernomen ter verzekering van de economische ontwikkeling van het land en ter bevordering van het welzijn van haar bevolking, behoren tot het culturele erfdeel van de gehele mensheid, Herinnerende aan de verklaringen van de President van de Verenigde Arabische Republiek betreffende het behoud van dit culturele erfdeel, dat zijn land voor de mensheid in bewaring heeft, Constaterende dat het door de Regering van de Verenigde Arabische Republiek aanvaarde project tot behoud van deze tempels, dat het in gedeelten afbreken daarvan en herbouw op dezelfde plaats, doch op een hoger gelegen niveau, beoogt, nadien is aanbevolen door de verschillende bevoegde technische commissies en de goedkeuring heeft ontvangen van de Uitvoerende Commissie van de Actie tot behoud van de monumenten in Nubië, Verlangende bij te dragen tot het behoud van de monumenten van Aboe Simbel, zodat deze ook door komende generaties kunnen worden bewonderd en op hun juiste waarde geschat, Gehoor gevende aan de te dien einde door de Organisatie voor onderwijs, wetenschap en cultuur van de Verenigde Naties verzonden oproepen tot internationale samenwerking op dit gebied,   Zijn de Overeenkomstsluitende Lid-Staten en geassocieerde leden van de Unesco als volgt overeengekomen:    

### Artikel  I  

1.  Ieder der Overeenkomstsluitende Lid-Staten of geassocieerde leden van de Unesco verbindt zich bij te dragen aan de uitvoering van het project tot behoud van de tempels van Aboe Simbel door in het hiertoe door de Directeur-Generaal van de Organisatie voor onderwijs, wetenschap en cultuur van de Verenigde Naties, hierna te noemen „de Directeur-Generaal”, ingestelde „Trust Fund” de bedragen te storten, genoemd in de Bijlage bij deze Overeenkomst, en wel in de valuta, op de data en op de wijze als aangegeven in deze Bijlage.   
2.  De Directeur-Generaal zal deze bedragen slechts aan de bevoegde instanties van de Verenigde Arabische Republiek overdragen nadat de Regering van de Verenigde Arabische Republiek zich definitief heeft verbonden de werkzaamheden tot behoud van de tempels van Aboe Simbel op zich te nemen en de maatregelen te treffen die nodig zijn om deze op bevredigende wijze te voltooien, alsmede voor dat doel met een of meer aannemers de overeenkomst aan te gaan betreffende de werkzaamheden omschreven in het bestek opgemaakt door het Ministerie van cultuur en nationale oriëntatie van de Verenigde Arabische Republiek (behoud van de tempels van Aboe Simbel, project II).   

### Artikel  II  

1.  De Directeur-Generaal zal volledig op de hoogte worden gehouden met betrekking tot de vervaldagen waarmee de Regering van de Verenigde Arabische Republiek rekening moet houden bij de uitvoering van de overeenkomst bedoeld in lid 2 van artikel I. Hem zal bovendien periodiek verslag worden uitgebracht omtrent de vorderingen van de werkzaamheden.   
2.  Hij zal de door hem ontvangen bedragen overeenkomstig de bepalingen van lid 1 van artikel I en overeenkomstig de procedure voorzien in de Overeenkomst tussen de Unesco en de Regering van de Verenigde Arabische Republiek betreffende het behoud van de tempels van Aboe Simbel overdragen aan de bevoegde instanties van de Verenigde Arabische Republiek, daarbij rekening houdende met de vervaldagen en de vorderingen van de werkzaamheden.   

### Artikel  III  

De Directeur-Generaal zal regelmatig, maar in elk geval om de zes maanden, aan de Overeenkomstsluitende Lid-Staten en geassocieerde leden van de Unesco verslag uitbrengen omtrent de toepassing van deze Overeenkomst, alsmede over de vorderingen van de werkzaamheden tot behoud van de tempels van Aboe Simbel.  

### Artikel  IV  

De Overeenkomst treedt voor iedere Overeenkomstsluitende Lid-Staat of geassocieerd lid van de Unesco onmiddellijk na de ondertekening in werking of, indien de ondertekening is geschied onder voorbehoud van bekrachtiging of aanvaarding op de datum van de nederlegging van een akte van bekrachtiging of van aanvaarding bij de Directeur-Generaal.  

### Artikel  V  

De Directeur-Generaal zal de bedragen die de Overeenkomstsluitende Lid-Staten en geassocieerde leden van de Unesco gestort hebben ter uitvoering van deze Overeenkomst te hunner beschikking houden, in geval de Regering van de Verenigde Arabische Republiek de overeenkomst betreffende de werkzaamheden omschreven in het door het Ministerie van cultuur en nationale oriëntatie opgemaakte bestek (behoud van de tempels van Aboe Simbel, project II) niet mocht afsluiten, of indien zij na de afsluiting van de overeenkomst deze zou opzeggen op de voorwaarden neergelegd in de Overeenkomst tussen de Unesco en de Regering van de Verenigde Arabische Republiek betreffende het behoud van de tempels van Aboe Simbel.  

### Artikel  VI  

De Directeur-Generaal doet de Lid-Staten en de geassocieerde leden van de Unesco mededeling van alle ondertekeningen van deze Overeenkomst, van de inhoud der verbintenissen aangegaan in de Bijlage bij deze Overeenkomst, alsmede van de nederlegging van de akten van bekrachtiging of van aanvaarding bedoeld in artikel IV van deze Overeenkomst.  

### Artikel  VII  

Overeenkomstig artikel 102 van het Handvest der Verenigde Naties zal deze Overeenkomst op verzoek van de Directeur-Generaal worden geregistreerd bij het Secretariaat van de Verenigde Naties.  

### Artikel  VIII  

Deze Overeenkomst is opgesteld in de Engelse, de Franse, de Spaanse en de Russische taal, zijnde deze vier teksten gelijkelijk authentiek.  

GEDAAN te Kaïro, op 9 november 1963, in een enkel exemplaar, dat zal worden nedergelegd in het archief van de Organisatie voor onderwijs, wetenschap en cultuur van de Verenigde Naties en waarvan voor eensluidend gewaarmerkte afschriften zullen worden toegezonden aan alle ondertekenende Lid-Staten en geassocieerde leden, alsmede aan de Verenigde Naties. TEN BLIJKE WAARVAN de ondergetekende vertegenwoordigers, hiertoe behoorlijk gemachtigd, deze Overeenkomst hebben ondertekend.  

### Bijlage  

####betreffende de bijdragen bedoeld in artikel I van de Overeenkomst

*Oostenrijk*  De Oostenrijkse Regering verbindt zich om in het tot dit doel door de Directeur-Generaal ingestelde „Trust Fund” de som van V.S. $ 25.000 te storten en wel in 5 jaarlijkse bedragen van V.S. $ 5.000, te beginnen met het jaar 1965. Datum: 18 november 1963 (w.g.) A. PHILIPPOVICH  *Spanje*  Spanje verbindt zich in het tot dit doel door de Directeur-Generaal ingestelde „Trust Fund” een som in Egyptische ponden te storten, die gelijkstaat met V.S. $ 270.000, ten laste van de middelen die de Spaanse Regering beschikbaar heeft of ter beschikking zal krijgen op de „clearing”-rekening van de Regering van de Verenigde Arabische Republiek; de Spaanse Regering zal deze som overdragen in gedeelten die zij in de loop van de maand november schriftelijk ter kennis zal brengen van de Directeur-Generaal. Datum: 9 november 1963 (w.g.) R. MARTIN HERRERO  *Frankrijk*  De Franse Regering verbindt zich om in het tot dit doel door de Directeur-Generaal ingestelde „Trust Fund” de tegenwaarde in Egyptische ponden van 5 miljoen franken te storten, op te nemen uit aan Franse onderdanen toebehorende geblokkeerde tegoeden in de Verenigde Arabische Republiek, en wel in 5 gelijke jaarlijkse bedragen waarvan het eerste in 1964 zal worden gestort. De Franse Regering neemt deze verplichting op zich onder voorbehoud van parlementaire goedkeuring. Datum: 9 november 1963 (w.g.) OLIVIER DE SAYVE  *India*  De Regering van India verplicht zich om voor het project tot behoud van de tempels van Aboe Simbel diensten, materieel en andere in India geproduceerde goederen te leveren ten behoeve van de Regering van de Verenigde Arabische Republiek, tot een waarde van 2.8 miljoen rupees voor het tijdvak 1963-1969. De eerste levering ten bedrage van 360.000 rupees zal in de loop van 1963-64 plaats kunnen vinden. Datum: 9 november 1963 (w.g.) E. POUCHPA DASS  *Italië*  Italië verbindt zich om in het tot dit doel door de Directeur-Generaal ingestelde „Trust Fund” de som van V.S. $ 695.200 te storten op de hiernagenoemde data en in de hiernagenoemde bedragen:  

| --- | --- |
|:---|:---|
| op 30 juni 1964 .....  | $ 321.027  |
| op 31 december 1964 ..  | $ 256.820  |
| op 31 december 1965 . .  | $ 117.353  |

Datum: 9 november 1963 (w.g.) GIAN FRANCO POMPEI  *Libië*  Libië verbindt zich om in het voor dit doel door de Directeur-Generaal ingestelde „Trust Fund” de som van V.S. $ 19.500 te storten in jaarlijkse bedragen verdeeld over de periode tot 1968. Dit bedrag is een aanvulling op het reeds betaalde bedrag van V.S. $ 6.500. Datum: 14 november 1963 (w.g.) K. ELATRASH  *Mali*  Mali verbindt zich om in het voor dit doel door de Directeur-Generaal ingestelde „Trust Fund” de som van 500.000 Malinese franken te storten. Datum: 9 november 1963 (w.g.) MODIBO DIALLO  *Verenigd Koninkrijk*  Harer Majesteits Regering in het Verenigd Koninkrijk verbindt zich om in het voor dit doel door de Directeur-Generaal ingestelde „Trust Fund” de tegenwaarde van tenminste V.S. $ 210.000 in Egyptische valuta te storten onder voorbehoud van parlementaire goedkeuring inzake beschikbaarstelling van deze fondsen, en wel zodra deze goedkeuring is verkregen. Datum: 9 november 1963 (w.g.) H. BEELEY  *Zuidslavië*  De Socialistische Federatieve Republiek Zuidslavië verbindt zich om in het tot dit doel door de Directeur-Generaal ingestelde „Trust Fund” de som van V.S. $ 226.000 te storten, en wel in zeven gelijke gedeelten. Het eerste gedeelte, voor het jaar 1962, is in december 1962 in het fonds gestort, de overige zes zullen volgen in december 1963, september 1964, september 1965, september 1966, september 1967 en september 1968. Datum: 9 november 1963 (w.g.) BRANCO NOVAKOVIĆ   
