<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Briefwisseling tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Regering van het Sultanaat Muscate en Oman inzake consulaire betrekkingen

### Nr.  I  

### *MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS* 

's-Gravenhage, April 9, 1968 Your Highness, I have the honour to inform Your Highness that in view of the excellent relations existing between our two countries and with regard to the increasing number of Netherlands nationals, residing in the Sultanate of Muscat and Oman, Her Majesty's Government has expressed the desire to establish consular relations between the Sultanate of Muscat and Oman and the Kingdom of the Netherlands. It is therefore with great satisfaction that I have learned, following the interview which Your Highness has graciously granted to Her Majesty's Ambassador in Baghdad in January 1968, that Your Highness has consented to an exchange of letters establishing such relations. On behalf of Her Majesty's Government I, therefore, have the honour to propose to Your Highness the establishment of consular relations between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Sultanate of Muscat and Oman, on a basis of reciprocity. It is the intention of Her Majesty's Government that a member of Her Majesty's Embassy in Baghdad shall be charged in a consular capacity with the performance of these consular duties. It also suggests that he be granted general permission to visit the Sultanate of Muscat and Oman at any time that his presence may be required in order to discharge his consular tasks. Likewise Her Majesty's Government shall be pleased and honoured to receive a consular representative which Your Highness may desire to charge with consular duties in the Kingdom of the Netherlands on behalf of the Sultanate. If Your Highness can agree to these proposals, I suggest that this letter and Your letter in reply thereto shall constitute an arrangement in this matter to take effect as from the date of the said reply. Accept, Your Highness, the assurance of my highest consideration. (sd.) J. LUNS Dr. J. M. A. H. Luns Minister for Foreign Affairs  *Sultan Said bin Taimur,*   *Sultan of Muscat and Oman,*   *Salalah,*   *Dhofar*    

### Nr.  II  

Salalah August 25, 1968 Your Excellency, We have received your Excellency's letter of the 9th April 1968, and thank you for the kind sentiments which you have expressed on behalf of Her Majesty's Government, and which we most cordially reciprocate. We are pleased to learn that it is now desired to complete an arrangement to establish consular relations between our two countries, and we therefore, confirm that we shall welcome the appointment of a Senior member of Her Majesty's Embassy in Baghdad to be charged in a consular capacity with the performance of a consular duties as may be required in the Sultanate on behalf of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. We would of course, expect to know his identity in advance. We further confirm that the said official shall enjoy a general permission to visit our Capital at Muscat at any time; and such other place in the Sultanate as might be necessary subject to our approval at that time. Finally we are pleased to note that Her Majesty's Government shall be pleased to receive our Consular representative in the same way should we so desire, and we confirm that this exchange of letters shall constitute the arrangement in this matter from this date. Accept, Your Excellency, the assurance of our highest consideration. (sd.) SAID BIN TAIMUR Sultan of Muscat and Oman.  *His Excellency Dr. J. M. A. H. Luns,*   *Minister Foreign Affairs,*   *of the Government of the Netherlands,*   *'s-Gravenhage,*   *Netherlands.*    
