<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling tussen de Nederlandse en de Canadese Regering houdende een overeenkomst inzake het gebruik van formulieren overeenkomstig artikel XI, vierde lid, van het Verdrag tussen de Staten die partij zijn bij het Noordatlantisch Verdrag, nopens de rechtspositie van hun krijgsmachten

### Nr.  I  

###CANADIAN EMBASSY

Note No. 102 The Canadian Embassy presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has the honour to refer to recent discussions between the Ministry and the Embassy concerning the procedures for facilitating the customs clearance of articles destined for or belonging to the Canadian administrative support group of AFCENT at Brunssum, in accordance to the North Atlantic Treaty - Status of Forces Agreement of June 19, 1951 in force for Canada since September 27, 1953. In accordance with these discussions, the Embassy wishes to propose that the Government of the Netherlands accept the Canadian Customs Form CF302 and recognize the Commanding Officer, Canadian Forces Support Unit as “the person authorized by the sending State to sign such certificates” for the purposes of paragraph 4 of Article XI of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement. It is proposed that this certificate would also apply to paragraphs 8 (a) and 13 of Article XI of the NATO SOFA and would thus cover the duty-free import, re-export and transit of goods for the exclusive use of the Canadian Forces Support Unit. If acceptable to the Netherlands it is proposed that Canadian Customs Form CF302 should also be recognized as the appropriate certificate to facilitate the export of goods purchased in the Netherlands by the Canadian Forces Support Unit pursuant to paragraph 9 of Article XI of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement. A copy of the proposed Canadian Customs Form CF302 and a specimen of the signature of Commanding Officer, Canadian Forces Support Unit , together with the stamp to be employed , are attached to this Note in compliance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Article XI of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement. <sup> 1)  [Red: Deze bijlagen zijn niet opgenomen.]  </sup> <sup> 1)  [Red: Deze bijlagen zijn niet opgenomen.]  </sup> <sup> 1)  [Red: Deze bijlagen zijn niet opgenomen.]  </sup> The Embassy would be grateful for confirmation by the Ministry that this proposal, constituting an administrative arrangement pursuant to the NATO Status of Forces Agreement, is acceptable to the Government of the Netherlands. The Canadian Embassy avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the assurances of its highest consideration. The Hague, November 24, 1977   

### Nr.  II  

###MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

Treaties Department DVE/VV-NA3945 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Canadian Embassy and has the honour to acknowledge receipt of the Embassy's Note no. 102 dated 24 November 1977, which reads as follows:  (zoals in Nr. I)  The Ministry has the honour to confirm that the above proposal, constituting an administrative arrangement pursuant to the NATO Status of Forces Agreement, is acceptable to the Netherlands Government. The said arrangement will enter into force on today's date. The Hague, 8 May 1978  *To the Canadian Embassy*   *at*   *The Hague*    
