<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Regering van Ierland inzake de uitbreiding van het Europees Verdrag betreffende uitlevering tot de Nederlandse Antillen en Aruba

### Nr.  I  

###ROYAL NETHERLANDS EMBASSY

Dublin, 27th July 1995 No. DUB/851 The Royal Netherlands Embassy presents its compliments to the Department of Foreign Affairs of Ireland and has the honour to propose that the application of the European Convention on Extradition of 13 December 1957, in accordance with Article 27, paragraph 4, be extended to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, that the declarations and reservations that apply in relations between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in respect of the Kingdom in Europe, and Ireland shall also apply in relations between Ireland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, and that the declaration concerning articles 6 and 21 as made by the Kingdom of the Netherlands upon ratification of the Convention on 14 February 1969 and as amended on 14 October 1987 shall apply to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba respectively, with regard to the extradition of Netherlands nationals, only when the European Convention on the transfer of sentenced persons, concluded in Strasbourg on 21 March 1993, becomes applicable to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba respectively. If this proposal is acceptable to the Government of Ireland, the Embassy has the honour further to propose that this note and the Department's affirmative reply, shall constitute an arrangement as provided for in article 27, paragraph 4, of the Convention, which shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the date on which the Embassy receives the Department's reply. The Royal Netherlands Embassy avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Department of Foreign Affairs the assurances of its highest consideration.    *The Department of Foreign Affairs*   *Legal Section*   *80 St. Stephen's Green*   *DUBLIN 2*    

### Nr.  II  

###DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS DUBLIN

4 December, 2000 The Department of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Royal Netherlands Embassy and has the honour to refer to the Embassy's Note No. DUB/851 dated the 27 July 1995, which reads as follows:  (Zoals in Nr. I)  The Department has the honour to confirm, on behalf of the Government of Ireland, that the proposals contained in the Embassy's letter are acceptable and that the Embassy's Note and this reply shall constitute an arrangement between Ireland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands as provided for in Article 27, paragraph 4 of the European Convention on Extradition of 13 December 1957, which shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the date on which the Embassy receives the Department's reply, that is, the date of this Note. The Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands takes this opportunity to renew to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Albania the assurances of its highest consideration.    *Royal Netherlands Embassy*   *160 Merrion Road*   *Ballsbridge*   *Dublin 4*    
