<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Verdrag betreffende de Spitsbergen Archipel, met inbegrip van het Bereneiland

The President of the United States of America; His Majesty the King of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India; His Majesty the King of Denmark; the President of the French Republic; His Majesty the King of Italy; His Majesty the Emperor of Japan; His Majesty the King of Norway; Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands; His Majesty the King of Sweden, Desirous, while recognising the sovereignty of Norway over the Archipelago of Spitsbergen, including Bear Island, of seeing these territories provided with an equitable régime, in order to assure their development and peaceful utilisation, Have appointed as their respective plenipotentiaries with a view to concluding a treaty to this effect: The President of the United States of America: Mr. Hugh Campbell Wallace, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America at Paris; His Majesty the King of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India: The Right Honourable the Earl of Derby, K. G., G. C. V. O., C. B., His Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary at Paris; And for the Dominion of Canada: The Right Honourable Sir George Halsey Perley, K. C. M. G., High Commissioner for Canada in the United Kingdom; for the Commonwealth of Australia: The Right Honourable Andrew Fisher, High Commissioner for Australia in the United Kingdom; for the Dominion of New Zealand: The Right Honourable Sir Thomas MacKenzie, K. C. M. G., High Commissioner for New Zealand in the United Kingdom; for the Union of South Africa: Mr. Reginald Andrew Blankenberg, O. B. E., Acting High Commissioner for South Africa in the United Kingdom; for India: The Right Honourable the Earl of Derby, K. G., G. C. V. O., C. B.; His Majesty the King of Denmark: Mr. Herman Anker Bernhoft, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of H. M. the King of Denmark at Paris; The President of the French Republic: Mr. Alexandre Millerand, President of the Council, Minister for Foreign Affairs; His Majesty the King of Italy: The Honourable Maggiorino Ferraris, Senator of the Kingdom; His Majesty the Emperor of Japan: Mr. K. Matsui, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of H. M. the Emperor of Japan at Paris; His Majesty the King of Norway: Baron Wedel Jarlsberg, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of H. M. the King of Norway at Paris; Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands: Mr. John Loudon, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of H. M. the Queen of the Netherlands at Paris; His Majesty the King of Sweden: Count J. J. A. Ehrensvärd, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of H. M. the King of Sweden at Paris;   Who, having communicated their full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed as follows:    

### Article  1  

The High Contracting Parties undertake to recognise, subject to the stipulations of the present treaty, the full and absolute sovereignty of Norway over the Archipelago of Spitsbergen, comprising, with Bear Island or Beeren-Eiland, all the islands situated between 10° and 35° longitude East of Greenwich and between 74° and 81° latitude North, especially West Spitsbergen, North - East Land, Barents Island, Edge Island, Wiche Islands, Hope Island or Hopen-Eiland, and Prince Charles Foreland, together with all islands great or small and rocks appertaining thereto (see annexed map ). <sup> 1)  Not reproduced.  </sup>  

### Article  2  

Ships and nationals of all the High Contracting Parties shall enjoy equally the rights of fishing and hunting in the territories specified in Article 1 and in their territorial waters. Norway shall be free to maintain, take or decree suitable measures to ensure the preservation and, if necessary, the re-constitution of the fauna and flora of the said regions, and their territorial waters; it being clearly understood that these measures shall always be applicable equally to the nationals of all the High Contracting Parties without any exemption, privilege or favour whatsoever, direct or indirect to the advantage of any one of them. Occupiers of land whose rights have been recognised in accordance with the terms of articles 6 and 7 wil enjoy the exclusive of hunting on their own land: (1) in the neighbourhood of their habitations, houses, stores, factories and installations, constructed for the purpose of developing their property, under conditions laid down by the local police regulations; (2) within a radius of 10 kilometres round the headquarters of their place of business or works; and in both cases, subject always to the observance of regulations made by the Norwegian Government in accordance with the conditions laid down in the present article.  

### Article  3  

The nationals of all the High Contracting Parties shall have equal liberty of access and entry for any reason or object whatever to the waters, fjords and ports of the territories specified in article 1; subject to the observance of local laws and regulations, they may carry on there without impediment all maritime, industrial, mining and commercial operations on a footing of absolute equality. They shall be admitted under the same conditions of equality to the exercise and practice of all maritime, industrial, mining or commercial enterprises both on land and in the territorial waters, and no monopoly shall be established on any account or for any enterprise whatever. Nothwithstanding any rules relating to coasting trade which may be in force in Norway, ships of the High Contracting Parties going to or coming from the territories specified in article I shall have the right to put into Norwegian ports on their outward or homeward voyage for the purpose of taking on board or disembarking passengers or cargo going to or coming from the said territories, or for any other purpose. It is agreed that in every respect and especially with regard to exports, imports and transit traffic, the nationals of all the High Contracting Parties, their ships and goods shall not be subject to any charges or restrictions whatever which are not borne by the nationals, ships or goods which enjoy in Norway the treatment of the most favoured nation; Norwegian nationals, ships or goods being for this purpose assimilated to those of the other High Contracting Parties, and not treated more favourably in any respect. No charge or restriction shall be imposed on the exportation of any goods to the territories of any of the Contracting Powers other or more onerous than on the exportation of similar goods to the territory of any other Contracting Power (including Norway) or to any other destination.  

### Article  4  

All public wireless telegraphy stations established or to be established by, or with the authorisation of, the Norwegian Government within the territories referred to in article I shall always be open on a footing of absolute equality to communications from ships of all flags and from nationals of the High Contracting Parties, under the conditions laid down in the Wireless Telegraphy Convention of July 5, 1912, or in the subsequent International Convention which may be concluded to replace it. Spbject to international obligations arising out of a state of war, owners of landed property shall always be at liberty to establish and use for their own purposes wireless telegraphy installations, which shall be free to communicate on private business with fixed or moving wireless stations, including those on board ships and aircraft.  

### Article  5  

The High Contracting Parties recognise the utility of establishing an international meteorological station in the territories specified in article I, the organisation of which shall form the subject of a subsequent Convention. Conventions shall also be concluded laying down the conditions under which scientific investigations may be conducted in the said territories.  

### Article  6  

Subject to the provisions of the present article, acquired rights of nationals of the High Contracting Parties shall be recognised. Claims arising from taking possession or from occupation of land before the signature of the present treaty shall be dealt with in accordance with the Annex hereto, which will have the same force and effect as the present treaty.  

### Article  7  

With regard to methods of acquisition, enjoyment and exercise of the right of ownership of property, including mineral rights, in the territories specified in article 1, Norway undertakes to grant to all nationals of the High Contracting Parties treatment based on complete equality and in conformity with the stipulations of the present treaty. Expropriation may be resorted to only on grounds of public utility and on payment of proper compensation.  

### Article  8  

Norway undertakes to provide for the territories specified in article 1 mining regulations which, especially from the point of view of imposts, taxes or charges of any kind, and of general or particular labour conditions, shall exclude all privileges, monopolies of favours for the benefit of the State or of the nationals of any one of the High Contracting Parties, including Norway, and shall guarantee to the paid staff of all categories the remuneration and protection necessary for their physical, moral and intellectual welfare. Taxes, dues and duties levied shall be devoted exclusively to the said territories and shall not exceed what is required for the object in view. So far, particularly, as the exportation of minerals is concerned, the Norwegian Government shall have the right to levy an export duty which shall not exceed 1 % of the maximum value of the minerals exported up to 100,000 tons, and beyond that quantity the duty will be proportionately diminished. The value shall be fixed at the end of the navigation season by calculating the average free on board price obtained. Three months before the date fixed for their coming into force, the draft mining regulations shall be communicated by the Norwegian Government to the other Contracting Powers. If during this period one or more of the said Powers propose to modify these regulations before they are applied, such proposals shall be communicated by the Norwegian Government to the other Contracting Powers in order that they may be submitted to examination and the decision of a Commission composed of one representative of each of the said Powers. This Commission shall meet at the invitation of the Norwegian Government and shall come to a decision within a period of three months from the date of its first meeting. Its décisions shall be taken by a majority.  

### Article  9  

Subject to the rights and duties resulting from the admission of Norway to the League of Nations, Norway undertakes not to create nor to allow the establishment of any naval base in the territories specified in article I and not to construct any fortification in the said territories, which may never be used for warlike purposes.  

### Article  10  

Until the recognition by the High Contracting Parties of a Russian Government shall permit Russia to adhere to the present treaty, Russian nationals and companies shall enjoy the same rights as nationals of the High Contracting Parties. Claims in the territories specified in article 1 which they may have to put forward shall be presented under the conditions laid down in the present treaty (article 6 and Annex) through the intermediary of the Danish Government, who declare their willingness to lend their good offices for this purpose. The present treaty, of which the French and English texts are both authentic, shall be ratified. Ratifications shall be deposited at Paris as soon as possible. Powers of which the seat of the Government is outside Europe may confine their action to informing the Government of the French Republic, through their diplomatic representative at Paris, that their ratification has been given, and in this case, they shall transmit the instrument as soon as possible. The present treaty will come into force, in so far as the stipulations of article 8 are concerned, from the date of its ratification by all the signatory Powers; and in all other respects on the same date as the mining regulations provided for in that article. Third Powers will be invited by the Government of the French Republic to adhere to the present treaty duly ratified. This adhesion shall be effected by a communication addressed to the French Government, which will undertake to notify the other Contracting Parties.  

In witness whereof the abovenamed plénipotentiaries have signed the present treaty. Done at Paris, the ninth day of February, 1920, in duplicate, one copy to be transmitted to the Government of His Majesty the King of Norway, and one deposited in the archives of the French Republic; authenticated copies will be transmitted to the other signatory Powers.  

### ANNEX.  

### 1  

(1) Within three months from the coming into force of the present Treaty, notification of all claims to land which had been made to any Government before the signature of the present treaty must be sent by the Government of the claimant to a Commissioner charged to examine such claims. The Commissioner will be a judge or jurisconsult of Danish nationality possessing the necessary qualifications for the task, and shall be nominated by the Danish Government.  

(2) The notification must include a precise delimitation of the land claimed and be accompanied by a map on a scale of not less than 1/1,000,000 on which the land claimed is clearly marked.  

(3) The notification must be accompanied by the deposit of a sum of one penny for each acre (40 ares) of land claimed, to defray the expenses of the examination of the claims.  

(4) The Commissioner will be entitled to require from the claimants any further documents or information which he may consider necessary.  

(5) The Commissioner will examine the claims so notified. For this purpose he will be entitled to avail himself of such expert assistance as be may consider necessary, and in case of need to cause investigations to be carried out on the spot.  

(6) The remuneration of the Commissioner will be fixed by agreement between the Danish Government and the other Governments concerned. The Commissioner will fix the remuneration of such assistants as he considers it necessary to employ.  

(7) The Commissioner, after examining the claims, will prepare a report showing precisely the claims which he is of opinion should be recognised at once and those which, either because they are disputed or for any other reason, he is of opinion should be submitted to arbitration as hereinafter provided. Copies of this report will be forwarded by the Commissioner to the Governments concerned.  

(8) If the amount of the sums deposited in accordance with clause (3) is insufficient to cover the expenses of the examination of the claims, the Commissioner will, in every case where he is of opinion that a claim should be recognised, at once state what further sun the claimant should be required to pay. This sum will be based on the amount of the land to which the claimant's title is recognised. If the sums deposited in accordance with clause (3) exceed the expenses of the examination, the balance will be devoted to the cost of the arbitration hereinafter provided for.  

(9) Within three months from the date of the report referred to in clause (7) of this paragraph, the Norwegian Government shall take the necessary steps to confer upon claimants whose claims have been recognised by the Commissioner a valid title securing to them the exclusive property in the land in question, in accordance with the laws and regulations in force or to be enforced in the territories specified in article 1 of the present treaty, and subject to the mining regulations referred to in article 8 of the present treaty. In the event, however, of a further payment being required in accordance with clause (8) of this paragraph, a provisional title only will be delivered, which title will become definitive on payment by the claimant, within such reasonable period as the Norwegian Government may fix, of the further sum required of him.      
### 2  

Claims which for any reason the Commissioner referred to in clause (1) of the preceding paragraph has not recognised as valid will be settled in accordance with the following provisions: 

(1) Within three months from the date of the report referred to in clause (7) of the preceding paragraph, each of the Governments whose nationals have been found to possess claims which have not been recognised will appoint an arbitrator. The Commissioner will be the President of the Tribunal so constituted. In cases of equal division of opinion, he shall have the deciding vote. He will nominate a Secretary to receive the documents referred to in clause (2) of this paragraph and to make the necessary arrangements for the meeting of the Tribunal.  

(2) Within one month from the appointment of the Secretary referred to in clause (1) the claimants concerned will send to him through the intermediary of their respective Governments statements indicating precisely their claims and accompanied by such documents and arguments as they may wish to submit in support thereof.  

(3) Within two months from the appointment of the Secretary referred to in clause (1) the Tribunal shall meet at Copenhagen for the purpose of dealing with the claims which have been submitted to it.  

(4) The language of the Tribunal shall be English. Documents or arguments may be submitted to it by the interested parties in their own language, but in that case must be accompanied by an English translation.  

(5) The claimants shall be entitled, if they so desire, to be heard by the Tribunal either in person or by counsel, and the Tribunal shall be entitled to call upon the claimants to present such additional explanations, documents or arguments as it may think necessary.  

(6) Before the hearing of any case the Tribunal shall require from the parties a deposit or security for such sum as it may think necessary to cover the share of each party in the expenses of the Tribunal. In fixing the amount of such sum the Tribunal shall base itself principally on the extent of the land claimed. The Tribunal shall also have power to demand a further deposit from the parties in cases where special expense is involved.  

(7) The honorarium of the arbitrators shall be calculated per month, and fixed by the Governments concerned. The salary of the Secretary and any other persons employed by the Tribunal shall be fixed by the President.  

(8) Subject to the provisions of this Annex the Tribunal shall have full power to regulate its own procedure.  

(9) In dealing with the claims the Tribunal shall take into consideration: 

(a) any applicable rules of International Law;  

(b) the general principles of justice and equity;  

(c) the following circumstances:  

(i) the date on which the land claimed was first occupied by the claimant or his predecessors in title;  

(ii) the date on which the claim was notified to the Government of the claimant;  

(iii) the extent to which the claimant or his predecessors in title have developed and exploited the land claimed. In this connection the Tribunal shall take into account the extent to which the claimants may have been prevented from developing their undertaking by conditions or restrictions resulting from the war of 1914–1919.      

(10) All the expenses of the Tribunal shall be divided among the claimants in such proportion as the Tribunal shall decide. If the amount of the sums paid in accordance with clause (6) is larger thans the expenses of the Tribunal, the balance shall be returned to the parties whose claims have been recognised in such proportion as the Tribunal shall think fit.  

(11) The decisions of the Tribunal shall be communicated by it to the Governments concerned, including in every case the Norwegian Government. The Norwegian Government shall within three months from the receipt of each decision take the necessary steps to confer upon the claimants whose claims have been recognised by the Tribunal a valid title to the land in question, in accordance with the law and regulations in force or to be enforced in the territories specified in article 1, and subject to the mining regulations referred to in article 8 of the present treaty. Nevertheless, the titles so conferred will only become definitive on the payment by the claimant concerned, within such reasonable period as the Norwegian Government may fix, of his share of the expenses of the Tribunal.      
### 3  

Any claims which are not notified to the Commissioner in accordance with clause (1) of paragraph 1, or which not having been recognised by him are not submitted to the Tribunal in accordance with paragraph 2, will be finally extinguished.    

De President van de Vereenigde Staten van Amerika; Zijne Majesteit de Koning van Groot-Britannië en Ierland en van de Britsche Overzeesche Gebieden, Keizer van Indië; Zijne Majesteit de Koning van Denemarken; de President van de Fransche Republiek; Zijne Majesteit de Koning van Italië; Zijne Majesteit de Keizer van Japan; Zijne Majesteit de Koning van Noorwegen; Hare Majesteit de Koningin der Nederlanden; Zijne Majesteit de Koning van Zweden, wenschende, om onder erkenning van de souvereiniteit van Noorwegen over den Spitsbergen-Archipel, met inbegrip van het Beereneiland, deze gebieden te voorzien van een rechtvaardig bestuur ten einde hun ontwikkeling en vreedzame exploitatie te verzekeren. Hebben tot Hunne respectievelijke gevolmachtigden benoemd om te dien einde een verdrag te sluiten: De President van de Vereenigde Staten van Amerika: den heer Hugh Campbell Wallace, Buitengewoon en Gevolmachtigd Ambassadeur van de Vereenigde Staten van Amerika te Parijs; Zijne Majesteit de Koning van Groot-Britannië en Ierland en van de Britsche Overzeesche Gebieden, Keizer van Indië: The Right Honourable the Earl of Derby, K.G., G.C.V.O., C.B., Hoogstdeszelfs Buitengewoon en Gevolmachtigd Ambassadeur te Parijs; en voor het Overzeesche Gebied Canada: The Right Honourable Sir George Halsey Perley, K. C. M. G., Hoogen Commissaris voor Canada in het Vereenigd Koninkrijk; voor het Gemeentebest Australië: The Right Honourable Andrew Fisher, Hoogen Commissaris voor Australië in het Vereenigd Koninkrijk; voor het Overzeesche Gebied Nieuw-Zeeland: The Right Honourable Sir Thomas MacKenzie, K. C. M. G., Hoogen Commissaris voor Nieuw-Zeeland in het Vereenigd Koninkrijk; voor de Unie van Zuid-Afrika: den heer Reginald Andrew Blankenberg, O. B. E., waarnemend Hoogen Commissaris voor Zuid-Afrika in het Vereenigd Koninkrijk; voor Indië: The Right Honourable the Earl of Derby, K. G., G. C. V. O., C. B.; Zijne Majesteit de Koning van Denemarken: den heer Herman Anker Bernhoft, Buitengewoon Gezant en Gevolmachtigd Minister van Zijne Majesteit den Koning van Denemarken te Parijs; de President van de Fransche Republiek: den heer Alexandre Millerand, President van den Raad van Ministers, Minister van Buitenlandsche Zaken; Zijne Majesteit de Koning van Italië: L'honorable Maggiorino Ferraris, Senator van het Koninkrijk; Zijne Majesteit de Keizer van Japan: den heer K. Matsui, Buitengewoon en Gevolmachtigd Ambassadeur van Zijne Majesteit den Keizer van Japan te Parijs; Zijne Majesteit de Koning van Noorwegen: Baron Wedel Jarlsberg, Buitengewoon Gezant en Gevolmachtigd Minister van Zijne Majesteit den Koning van Noorwegen te Parijs; Hare Majesteit de Koningin der Nederlanden: Jonkheer John London, Buitengewoon Gezant en Gevolmachtigd Minister van Hare Majesteit de Koningin der Nederlanden te Parijs; Zijne Majesteit de Koning van Zweden: Graaf J. J. A. Ehrensvärd, Buitengewoon Gezant en Gevolmachtigd Minister van Zijne Majesteit den Koning van Zweden te Parijs;   die, na overlegging hunner in goeden en behoorlijken vorm bevonden volmachten, omtrent de volgende bepalingen zijn overeengekomen:    

### Artikel  1  

De Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen komen overeen, om, met inachtneming van de voorwaarden neergelegd in dit verdrag, de volle en geheele souvereiniteit van Noorwegen te erkennen over den Spitsbergen-Archipel, die te zamen met het Beeren-Eiland alle eilanden omvat welke gelegen zijn tusschen de 10° en 35° O. L. van Greenwich en tusschen 74° en 81° N. B., met name: West-Spitsbergen, Noord-Oost-Land, Barents-eiland, Edge-eiland, de Wiche-eilanden, Hoop-eiland en Prins-Karel-land, te zamen met alle daarbij behoorende eilanden, eilandjes en rotsen. (Zie de bijgevoegde kaart ). <sup> 1)  Niet afgedrukt.  </sup>  

### Artikel  2  

Schepen en onderdanen van alle Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen zullen gelijkelijk in het genot worden gesteld van het visch- en jachtrecht in de gebieden aangeduid in artikel 1 en in de territoriale wateren van die gebieden. Noorwegen zal bevoegd zijn de maatregelen te handhaven, te nemen of uit te vaardigen, geëigend om de instandhouding, en zoo noodig het herstel, van de fauna en de flora in genoemde streken en haar territoriale wateren te verzekeren, met dien verstande, dat deze maatregelen altijd gelijkelijk van toepassing zullen moeten zijn op de onderdanen van alle Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen, zonder eenige directe of indirecte vrijstelling, voorrecht of gunst, welke ook, ten voordeele van een Harer. Zij, die grond in bezit nemen en wier rechten erkend zijn overeenkomstig de bepalingen van de artikelen 6 en 7, zullen op hun eigen grond het uitsluitend jachtrecht genieten: 1°. in de nabijheid van hun woningen, huizen, magazijnen, fabrieken en installaties aangebracht voor de ontginning van hun eigendom, op de voorwaarden vastgesteld door de plaatselijke politieregelingen; 2°. binnen een kring met een straal van 10 Kilometer getrokken van uit den hoofdzetel van hun ondernemingen of exploitaties, in beide gevallen onder voorbehoud van de nakoming van de regelingen uitgevaardigd door de Noorsche Regeering in overeenstemming met de voorwaarden, neergelegd in dit artikel.  

### Artikel  3  

De onderdanen van alle Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen zullen gelijkelijk recht van toegang en verblijf hebben, onverschillig wat hiervan de oorzaak of het doel moge zijn, in de wateren, fjorden en havens van de gebieden, aangeduid in artikel 1; met inachtneming van de plaatselijke wetten en regelingen zulen zij aldaar, zonder eenige belemmering, op voet van volkomen gelijkheid, alle maritieme, industrieele, mijnbouwkundige en commercieele werken mogen uitvoeren. Zij zullen onder dezelfde voorwaarden van gelijkheid worden toegelaten tot de uitoefening en exploitatie van alle maritieme, industrieele, mijnbouwkundige of commercieele ondernemingen, zoowel te land als in de territoriale wateren, en in geen enkel opzicht en voor geen enkele onderneming zal een monopolie worden ingesteld. Niettegenstaande regelen, die in Noorwegen mochten bestaan met betrekking tot de kustvaart, zullen schepen van de Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen, welke afkomstig zijn van of bestemd zijn naar de gebieden aangeduid in artikel 1, het recht hebben, zoowel op den heenweg als op den terugweg binnen te loopen in Noorsche havens ten einde reizigers of goederen op te nemen of af te zetten, welke afkomstig zijn van of bestemd zijn voor de genoemde gebieden, of om welke andere reden ook. Overeengekomen wordt, dat in ieder opzicht, en met name wat betreft den uitvoer, den invoer en den doorvoer, de onderdanen van alle Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen, hun schepen en hun goederen niet onderworpen zullen zijn aan eenige rechten of beperkingen welke ook, die niet van toepassing zijn op de onderdanen, op de schepen en op de goederen, welke in Noorwegen de behandeling van de meest begunstigde natie genieten; Noorsche onderdanen, hun schepen en hun goederen worden te dien einde gelijkgesteld met die van de andere Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen en genieten in geen enkel opzicht een gunstiger behandeling. Voor den uitvoer van goederen, bestemd voor het grondgebied van een der Verdragsluitende Mogendheden, zal geen belasting mogen worden geheven, of beperking worden gesteld, verschillend van of meer bezwarend dan die, welke gelden voor den uitvoer van goederen van dezelfde soort naar het grondgebied van eenige andere Verdragsluitende Mogendheid (met inbegrip van Noorwegen) of naar eenige andere bestemming.  

### Artikel  4  

Ieder openbaar station van draadlooze telegrafie, dat door of met de machtiging van de Noorsche Regeering gevestigd is of gevestigd zal worden in de gebieden bedoeld in artikel 1, zal altijd op een voet van volkomen gelijkheid open moeten staan voor berichten van schepen van iedere vlag en van onderdanen van de Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen, op de voorwaarden, vastgesteld hij het Internationaal Radiotelegraafverdrag van 5 Juli 1912 of bij het internationaal verdrag, dat later gesloten mocht worden ter vervanging van bovengenoemd verdrag. Onder voorbehoud van de internationale verplichtingen, welke voortvloeien uit een oorlogstoestand, zullen eigenaars van een onroerend goed altijd het recht hebben om ten eigen bate installaties voor draadlooze telegrafie te maken en te gebruiken, welke over particuliere aangelegenheden berichten zullen mogen overbrengen van en naar vaste of verplaatsbare stations, met inbegrip van stations gevestigd op schepen en luchtvaartuigen.  

### Artikel  5  

De Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen erkennen de wenschelijkheid om in de gebieden, aangeduid in artikel 1, een internationaal meteorologisch station te vestigen, waarvan de inrichting in een later verdrag zal worden geregeld. Eveneens zullen verdragen worden gesloten ter bepaling van de voorwaarden, waarop in de genoemde gebieden wetenschappelijke onderzoekingen zullen mogen worden uitgevoerd.  

### Artikel  6  

Onder voorbehoud van de bepalingen van dit artikel zullen verkregen rechten van onderdanen van de Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen worden erkend. Omtrent aanspraken gegrond op inbezitneming of bezetting van land op een tijdstip, voorafgaande aan de onderteekening van dit verdrag, zal worden beslist overeenkomstig de hieraan toegevoegde Bijlage, welke dezelfde kracht en werking zal hebben als dit verdrag.  

### Artikel  7  

Noorwegen verbindt zich, om in de gebieden, aangeduid in artikel 1, alle onderdanen van de Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen, wat betreft de wijze van verkrijging, genot en uitoefening van eigendomsrecht, met inbegrip van mijnrechten, te behandelen op voet van volkomen gelijkheid en overeenkomstig de bepalingen van dit verdrag. Onteigening zal uitsluitend mogen plaats hebben op grond van algemeen nut en tegen betaling van een behoorlijke schadevergoeding.  

### Artikel  8  

Noorwegen verbindt zich, om voor de gebieden, aangeduid in artikel 1, een mijnreglement vast te stellen, hetwelk, met name ten aanzien van belastingen, heffingen of rechten van welken aard ook, en ten aanzien van algemeene en bijzondere arbeidsvoorwaarden, alle voorrechten, monopolie's of gunsten ten voordeele van den Staat of ten voordeele van de onderdanen van een der Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen, met inbegrip van Noorwegen, zal uitsluiten, en hetwelk aan het gesalarieerd personeel van alle categorieën de bezoldiging en de bescherming, noodig voor hun lichamelijk, zedelijk en geestelijk welzijn, zal waarborgen. Belastingen, heffingen en rechten, die geheven zullen worden, zullen uitsluitend bestemd moeten worden voor de genoemde gebieden en zullen slechts geheven mogen worden in de mate, waarin zij voor hun doel vereischt zijn. Wat in het bijzonder den uitvoer van ertsen betreft, zal de Noorsche Regeering de bevoegdheid hebben, een uitvoerrecht vast te stellen; dit uitvoerrecht zal echter niet meer mogen bedragen dan 1 percent van de maximum waarde van de uitgevoerde ertsen, wanneer de uitgevoerde hoeveelheid minder is dan 100 000 ton, terwijl, indien de uitvoer deze hoeveelheid te boven gaat, het uitvoerrecht naar evenredigheid zal worden verminderd. De waarde zal worden bepaald aan het einde van het scheepvaart-seizoen, waarbij de gemiddelde prijs van de ertsen vrij aan boord (f.o.b.) tot grondslag zal worden genomen. Het ontwerp-mijnreglement zal drie maanden vóór den datum vastgesteld voor het inwerking treden ervan door de Noorsche Regeering worden medegedeeld aan de andere Verdragsluitende Partijen. Indien een of meer van genoemde Mogendheden in dit tijdsverloop mochten voorstellen, wijzigingen in dit reglement aan te brengen, alvorens dit zal worden toegepast, zal de Noorsche Regeering deze voorstellen ter kennis van de andere Verdragsluitende Partijen brengen, ten einde de voorstellen te onderwerpen aan het onderzoek en de beslissing van een Commissie, samengesteld uit één vertegenwoordiger van ieder der genoemde Mogendheden. Deze Commissie zal bijeenkomen op uitnoodiging van de Noorsche Regeering en zal binnen een tijdsverloop van drie maanden na haar eerste bijeenkomst een beslissing moeten geven. De beslissingen zullen worden genomen hij meerderheid van stemmen.  

### Artikel  9  

Onder voorbehoud van de rechten en verplichtingen, welke voor Noorwegen mochten voortvloeien uit zijn toetreding tot den Volkenbond, verbindt Noorwegen zich om in de gebieden, aangeduid in artikel 1, geen marine-basis te vestigen of toe te laten, dat er een gevestigd wordt en om in de genoemde gebieden, welke nooit voor oorlogsdoeleinden gebruikt zullen mogen worden, geen versterking aan te leggen.  

### Artikel  10  

In afwachting, dat de erkenning van een Russische Regeering door de Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen het Rusland zal mogelijk maken tot dit verdrag toe te treden, zullen de Russische onderdanen en maatschappijen dezelfde rechten genieten als de onderdanen van de Hooge Verdragsluitende Partijen. Aanspraken, welke zij zouden willen doen gelden in de gebieden, aangeduid in artikel 1, moeten worden geldend gemaakt op de voorwaarden, neergelegd in dit verdrag (artikel 6 en Bijlage), door de tusschenkomst van de Deensche Regeering, die zich bereid verklaart om te dien einde haar goede diensten te verleenen. Dit verdrag, waarvan de Fransche en Engelsche tekst beide authentiek zijn, zal worden bekrachtigd. De akten van bekrachtiging zullen zoo spoedig mogelijk te Parijs worden nedergelegd. Mogendheden, wier Regeering haar zetel heeft buiten Europa, kunnen zich er toe bepalen, om aan de Regeering van de Fransche Republiek door middel van haar diplomatieken vertegenwoordiger te Parijs kennis te geven van haar bekrachtiging en in dat geval moeten zij de akte van bekrachtiging zoo spoedig mogelijk overleggen. Dit verdrag zal, voorzoover betreft de bepalingen van artikel 8, in werking treden op den datum, waarop het zal zijn bekrachtigd door ieder van de onderteekenende Mogendheden, en in ieder ander opzicht gelijktijdig met het in werking treden van het mijnreglement, bedoeld in genoemd artikel. Derde Mogendheden zullen door de Regeering van de Fransche Republiek worden uitgenoodigd om toe te treden tot dit verdrag, wanneer het overeenkomstig bovenstaande bepalingen zal zijn bekrachtigd. Deze toetreding zal geschieden door middel van een kennisgeving, gericht tot de Fransche Regeering, die op zich neemt de andere Verdragsluitende Partijen hiervan in kennis te stellen.  

Ter oorkonde waarvan de bovengenoemde gevolmachtigden dit verdrag hebben onderteekend. Aldus gedaan te Parijs, den 9 Februari 1920, in tweevoud, waarvan het ééne exemplaar zal worden ter hand gesteld aan de Regeering van Zijne Majesteit den Koning van Noorwegen, en het tweede exemplaar zal worden nedergelegd in de archieven van de Regeering der Fransche Republiek, terwijl authentieke afschriften aan de andere Mogendheden, die dit Verdrag hebben onderteekend, zullen worden ter hand gesteld.  

### BIJLAGE.  

### §  1  

1°. Binnen drie maanden na het van kracht worden van dit verdrag moeten alle aanspraken op grond, die reeds vóór de onderteekening van dit verdrag tot eenige Regeering gericht waren, door de Regeering van den eischer ter kennis worden gebracht van een Commissaris belast met het onderzoeken van zoodanige eischen. Deze Commissaris zal zijn een rechter of een rechtsgeleerde van Deensche nationaliteit, die de vereischte hoedanigheden daartoe bezit en aangewezen is door de Deensche Regeering.  

2°. De kennisgeving zal een nauwkeurige afbakening van het geëischte stuk grond moeten inhouden en zal vergezeld moeten zijn van een kaart op een schaal van minstens 1 :1 000 000, waarop het geëischte stuk grond duidelijk zal zijn aangegeven.  

3°. De kennisgeving zal gepaard moeten gaan met het deponeeren van het bedrag van een penny (1 d.) per acre (40 Aren) grond ter dekking van de kosten van het onderzoek van de eischen.  

4°. De Commissaris zal bevoegd zijn van de eischers alle verdere documenten of inlichtingen te vragen, welke hij noodig oordeelt.  

5°. De Commissaris zal de eischen, welke aldus te zijner kennis zijn gebracht, onderzoeken. Daartoe zal hij bevoegd zijn gebruik te maken van zoodanigen deskundigen bijstand als hij noodig oordeelt, en ingeval dit noodzakelijk is zal hij onderzoekingen ter plaatse kunnen laten uitvoeren.  

6°. De bezoldiging van den Commissaris zal bepaald worden in gemeenschappelijk overleg tusschen de Deensche Regeering en de andere betrokken Regeeringen. De Commissaris zal de bezoldiging bepalen van de ambtenaren, welke hij noodig oordeelt in dienst te nemen.  

7°. Na de eischen onderzocht te hebben, zal de Commissaris een rapport opstellen, waarin nauwkeurig wordt aangegeven, welke eischen naar zijn meening dadelijk als gegrond moeten worden erkend en welke naar zijn mening, òf omdat zij bestreden worden òf om eenige andere reden aan arbitrage moeten worden onderworpen als hieronder aangegeven. Afschriften van dit rapport zullen door den Commissaris aan de betrokken Regeeringen worden toegezonden.  

8°. Als het bedrag van de gelden, welke overeenkomstig lid 3 zijn gedeponeerd, onvoldoende is om de uitgaven tot onderzoek van de eischen te dekken, zal de Commissaris indien de eisch hem gegrond voorkomt, onmiddellijk vaststellen, welk aanvullend bedrag men den eischer zal moeten vragen te betalen. Als grondslag voor dit bedrag zal worden genomen de uitgestrektheid van het stuk grond, waarop de titel van den eischer erkend is. Als de gelden, welke overeenkomstig lid 3 zijn gedeponeerd, de kosten van het onderzoek te boven gaan, zal het overschot besteed worden voor de kosten van de arbitrage als hieronder voorzien.  

9°. Binnen drie maanden na dagteekening van het rapport bedoeld in lid 7 van deze paragraaf zal de Noorsche Regeering de noodige maatregelen nemen, om den eischers, wier eischen door den Commissaris erkend zijn, een geldigen titel toe te kennen waarbij hun de uitsluitende eigendom op het betreffende stuk grond wordt verzekerd, overeenkomstig de wetten en bepalingen, welke in de gebieden aangeduid in artikel 1 van dit verdrag van kracht zijn of van kracht zullen worden en voorts met inachtneming van het mijnreglement bedoeld in artikel 8 van dit verdrag. Ingeval echter overeenkomstig lid 8 van deze paragraaf een aanvullende betaling vereischt wordt, zal slechts een voorloopige titel worden afgegeven, welke titel definitief zal worden, zoodra de eischer het van hem gevraagde aanvullende bedrag, binnen een redelijk tijdsverloop, vast te stellen door de Noorsche Regeering, zal hebben betaald.      
### §  2  

Eischen, welke om een of andere reden de Commissaris bedoeld in lid 1 van de voorafgaande paragraaf niet als geldig heeft erkend, zullen worden geregeld overeenkomstig de volgende bepalingen: 

1°. Binnen drie maanden na dagteekening van het rapport bedoeld in lid 7 van de voorafgaande paragraaf zal ieder van de Regeeringen, waartoe onderdanen behooren wier eischen niet zijn erkend, een scheidsrechter aanwijzen. De Commissaris zal Voorzitter zijn van het aldus samengestelde scheidsgerecht. Indien de stemmen staken, zal zijn stem den doorslag geven. Hij zal een Secretaris benoemen tot het in ontvangst nemen van de stukken bedoeld in lid 2 van deze paragraaf en tot het nemen van de noodige maatregelen voor het bijeenkomen van het scheidsgerecht.  

2°. Binnen een maand na de benoeming van den Secretaris bedoeld in lid 1 zullen de betrokken eischers, door tusschenkomst van hun respectievelijke Regeeringen, aan den Secretaris memorie's doen toekomen, waarin nauwkeurig hun aanspraken worden aangegeven, en die vergezeld zijn van alle stukken en bewijsvoeringen, die zij tot steun van hun aanspraken willen overleggen.  

3°. Binnen twee maanden na de benoeming van den Secretaris bedoeld in lid 1, zal het scheidsgerecht te Kopenhagen bijeenkomen ten einde de aanspraken, die zullen zijn voorgelegd, te onderzoeken.  

4°. De taal van het Hof zal zijn het Engelsch. De betrokken partijen kunnen stukken en bewijsvoeringen aan het scheidsgerecht in haar eigen taal overleggen, maar in dat geval zal hieraan een Engelsche vertaling moeten worden toegevoegd.  

5°. De eischers zullen, indien zij dit wenschen, het recht hebben door het scheidsgerecht gehoord te worden, hetzij in eigen persoon hetzij vertegenwoordigd door een raadsman en het scheidsgerecht zal het recht hebben van de eischers zoodanige aanvullende uitleggingen, stukken of bewijsvoeringen te vragen als het noodig oordeelt.  

6°. Vóór de verhandeling van een zaak zal het scheidsgerecht van de partijen eischen, dat zij een zoodanig bedrag storten of waarborgen als het scheidsgerecht noodig oordeelt om het aandeel van ieder der partijen in de kosten van het scheidsgerecht te dekken. Bij de bepaling van zoodanig bedrag zal het scheidsgerecht voornamelijk tot grondslag nemen de uitgebreidheid van het stuk grond, waarop aanspraak wordt gemaakt. Het scheidsgerecht zal eveneens bevoegd zijn een aanvullende storting van de partijen te vragen in gevallen, die bijzondere onkosten medebrengen.  

7°. Het honorarium van de scheidsrechters zal per maand berekend worden en bepaald worden door de betrokken Regeeringen. Het salaris van den Secretaris en van alle andere personen in dienst bij het scheidsgerecht zal bepaald worden door den Voorzitter.  

8°. Met inachtneming van de bepalingen van deze Bijlage zal het scheidsgerecht volkomen vrijheid hebben zijn eigen procedure te regelen.  

9°. Bij de behandeling der eischen moet het scheidsgerecht in aanmerking nemen: 

a. alle toepasselijke regelen van het volkenrecht;  

b. de algemeene beginselen van rechtvaardigheid en billijkheid;  

c. de volgende omstandigheden: 

1. den datum, waarop het geëischte land voor de eerste maal door den eischer of diens rechtsvoorgangers in bezit is genomen;  

2. den datum, waarop de eisch ter kennis is gebracht van de Regeering van den eischer;  

3. de mate, waarin de eischer of diens rechtsvoorgangers het geëischte land hebben ontwikkeld en geëxploiteerd. In dit verband moet het scheidsgerecht in aanmerking nemen de mate, waarin omstandigheden of beperkingen voortvloeiende uit den oorlog 1914–1919 de eischers belemmerd kunnen hebben in het ontwikkelen van hun ondernemingen.      

10°. Alle kosten van het scheidsgerecht zullen verdeeld over de eischers in een verhouding te bepalen door het scheidsgerecht. Indien het bedrag der sommen betaald overeenkomstig lid 6 hooger mocht zijn dan de onkosten van het scheidsgerecht, zal het overschot worden terugbetaald aan de partijen, wier eischen erkend zijn, in zoodanige verhouding als het scheidsgerecht billijk zal oordeelen.  

11°. Het scheidsgerecht zal zijn beslissingen aan de betrokken Regeeringen, en in ieder geval aan de Noorsche Regeering mededeelen. De Noorsche Regeering zal binnen drie maanden na ontvangst van iedere beslissing de noodige stappen doen om den eischers, wier eischen erkend zijn, een geldigen titel op het betreffende stuk grond te verleenen, overeenkomstig de wetten en bepalingen, welke in de gebieden aangeduid in artikel 1 van kracht zijn of zullen worden, en voorts met inachtneming van het mijnreglement bedoeld in artikel 8 van dit verdrag. De aldus verleende titels zullen echter alleen definitief worden, wanneer de betrokken eischer binnen een redelijk, door de Noorsche Regeering aan te wijzen tijdsverloop zijn aandeel in de kosten van het scheidsgerecht zal hebben betaald.      
### §  3  

Alle eischen, die niet overeenkomstig lid 1 van paragraaf 1 ter kennis van den Commissaris worden gebracht, of die, als niet wordende erkend, door hem niet aan het scheidsgerecht worden voorgelegd overeenkomstig paragraaf 2, zullen als definitief vervallen worden beschouwd.    
