<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Briefwisseling tussen de regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de regering van het Verenigd Koninkrijk van Groot-Brittannië en Noord-Ierland houdende een overeenkomst inzake de uitbreiding van de toepasselijkheid van het Europees Verdrag aangaande de wederzijdse rechtshulp in strafzaken tot Man

### Nr.  I  

BRITISH EMBASSY THE HAGUE 11 January 2000 Note No: 002 Your Excellency I have the honour to refer to the [European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters 1959](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md) to which both our Countries are parties. I have the honour to propose that, in accordance with [Article 25, paragraph 5](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md), the application of the Convention be extended to the isle of Man, for whose international relations the United Kingdom is responsible, subject to the conditions set out below: 

(i) In respect of the Isle of Man, references to the “Ministry of Justice” for the purposes of [Article 11, paragraph 2](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md), [Article 15, paragraph 1, 3 and 6](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md) and [Article 21, paragraph 1](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md) and [Article 22](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md) are to the Attorney General for the Isle of Man;  

(ii) In accordance with [Article 24](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md), for the purposes of the Convention the following are judicial authorities in respect of the Isle of Man:   

a) Court of Summary Jurisdiction;  

b) Court of General Gaol Delivery;  

c) High Court;   

(iii) That the Reservations Nos. 1 to 6 in respect of [Article 2](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md), [Article 3](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md), [Article 5(1)](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md), [Article 11(2)](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md), [Article 12](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md) and [Article 21](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md) and the Declaration No. 2 in respect of [Article 16(2)](../../../../../../../../../../../../../../verdrag/european/convention/on/mutual/assistance/in/criminal/matters/BWBV0001009/README.md), made by the United Kingdom upon ratification of the Convention on 29 August 1991, will also be applicable for the Isle of Man.   If the above proposal is acceptable to the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, I have the honour to suggest that this Note and Your Excellency's reply to that effect shall constitute an agreement between our two governments which shall enter into force on the date of your reply. I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your excellency the assurance of My highest consideration. (sd.) T. C. HOLMES T. C. Holmes Chargé d'Affaires  *His Excellency*   *J. J. van Aartsen*   *Minister of Foreign Affairs*   *The Hague*    

### Nr.  II  

MINISTERIE VAN BUITENLANDSE ZAKEN The Hague, 14 September 2001 Excellency, I have the honour to refer to Your Excellency's Note No. 002 dated 11 January 2000 which reads as follows:  (Zoals in Nr. I)  In reply I have the honour to confirm that the foregoing proposal is acceptable to the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and that Your Excellency's Note and this reply shall constitute an Agreement between the Kingdom of the Netherlands (for the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba) and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland which shall enter into force on the date of this Note. I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurance of my highest consideration. Yours sincerely, (sd.) JOZIAS VAN AARTSEN Jozias van Aartsen Minister of Foreign Affairs  *His Excellency Colin Richard Budd*   *the Ambassador of the United Kingdom*   *of Great Britain and Northern Ireland*   *Lange Voorhout 10*   *2541 ED Den Haag*    
