<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Regering van Noorwegen inzake de uitbreiding van het Europees Verdrag betreffende uitlevering tot de Nederlandse Antillen en Aruba

### Nr.  I  

Oslo, 26 January 1994 No. 0025 The Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands presents its compliments to the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway and has the honour to propose that the application of the European Convention on extradition of 13 December 1957, in accordance with article 27, paragraph 4, be extended to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, that the declarations and reservations that apply in relations between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in respect of the Kingdom in Europe, and the Kingdom of Norway shall also apply in relations between the Kingdom of Norway and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, and that the declaration concerning articles 6 and 21 as made by the Kingdom of the Netherlands upon ratification of the Convention on 14 February 1969 and as amended on 14 October 1987 shall apply to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba respectively, with regard to the extradition of Netherlands nationals, only when the European Convention on the transfer of sentenced persons, concluded in Strasbourg on 21 March 1983, becomes applicable to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba respectively. If this proposal is acceptable to the Government of the Kingdom of Norway, the Embassy has the honour further to propose that this note and the Ministry's affirmative reply shall constitute an arrangement as provided for in article 27, paragraph 4, of the Convention, which shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the date on which the Embassy receives the Ministry's reply. The Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway the assurances of its highest consideration.    *The Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs*   *Oslo*    

### Nr.  II  

###ROYAL MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

Oslo, 18 February, 1994 J.no. 685/94 IV The Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and has the honour to acknowledge receipt of the Embassy's note of 26 January 1994, which reads as follows:  (Zoals in Nr. I  The Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honour to confirm that the Government of the Kingdom of Norway agrees with the above proposal , and that the Embassy's note and this note shall constitute an arrangement as provided for in article 27, paragraph 4 of the European Convention on Extradition of 13 December 1957. The Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlnads the assurances of its highest consideration.    *To the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands*   *Oslo*    
