<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling houdende een verdrag ter uitbreiding tot de Nederlandse Antillen en Aruba van het Verdrag tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Regering van het Verenigd Koninkrijk van Groot-Brittannië en Noord-Ierland ter aanvulling en vergemakkelijking van de werking van de Overeenkomst van de Raad van Europa inzake het witwassen, de opsporing, de inbeslagneming en de confiscatie van opbrengsten van misdrijven, gesloten te Straatsburg op 8 november 1990

### Nr.  I  

ROYAL NETHERLANDS EMBASSY London, 12 November 2003  No. LON-PA/121103/YD/2 The Royal Netherlands Embassy presents its compliments to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and has the honour to refer to the Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to supplement and facilitate the Operation of the Convention of the Council of Europe on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds from Crime, concluded at Strasbourg on 8 November 1990, signed at London on 15 September 1993 (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement”). The Embassy has the honour to propose that, in accordance with Article XII of the Agreement, the application of that Agreement be extended to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba. If the above proposal is acceptable to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Embassy has the honour to propose that this Note and the reply of the Ministry to that effect shall constitute an Agreement between our two Governments which shall enter into force on the date thirty days from the date of the reply. The Royal Netherlands Embassy avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office the assurances of its highest consideration.  *The Foreign and Commonwealth Office*  *King Charles Street*  *London SW1A 2AH*

###Nr. II 

FOREIGN AND COMMONWEALTH OFFICE London, 6 July 2006  No. DICD/001/2006 The Foreign and Commonwealth Office presents its compliments to the Royal Netherlands Embassy and has the honour to refer to the latter’s Note No. LON-PA/121103/YDT/2 of 12 November 2003, which reads as follows. (zoals in Nr. I)The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has the honour to confirm that the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland accepts the proposal outlined in the Embassy’s Note and that the Embassy’s Note and this reply shall constitute an Agreement between our two Governments which shall enter into force on the date thirty days from the date of this reply, namely the 7 August 2006. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Royal Netherlands Embassy the assurances of its highest consideration.  *The Royal Netherlands Embassy*  *38 Hyde Park Gate*  *London*  *SW7 5DP* 
