<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en de Regering van Zwitserland inzake de uitbreiding van het Europees Verdrag betreffende uitlevering tot de Nederlandse Antillen en Aruba

### Nr.  I  

Berne, 20th October, 1993 No.: 1999 The Royal Netherlands Embassy presents its compliments to the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs and has the honour to propose that the application of the European Convention on Extradition of 13th December, 1957, in accordance with article 27, paragraph 4, be extended to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, that the declarations and reservations that apply in relations between the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in respect of the Kingdom in Europe and the Swiss Confederation shall also apply in relations between the Swiss Confederation and the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba, and that the declaration concerning articles 6 and 21 as made by the Kingdom of the Netherlands upon ratification of the Convention on 14th February, 1969, and as amended on 14th October, 1987, shall apply to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba respectively with regard to the extradition of Netherlands nationals, only when the European Convention on the Transfer of Sentenced persons, concluded in Strasbourg on 21st March, 1983 becomes applicable to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba respectively. If this proposal is acceptable to the Government of Switzerland, the Embassy has the honour further to propose that this Note and the Department's affirmative reply, shall constitute an arrangement as provided for in article 27, paragraph 4, of the Convention, which shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the date on which the Embassy receives the Department's reply. The Royal Netherlands Embassy avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs the assurances of its highest consideration.    *To the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs*   *3003 Berne*    

### Nr.  II  

###EIDGENÖSSISCHES DEPARTEMENT FÜR AUSWÄRTIGE ANGELEGENHEITEN

Bern, den 28. Oktober 1993 Das Eidgenössische Departement für auswärtige Angelegenheiten beehrt sich, der Königlich Niederländischen Botschaft den Empfang ihrer folgendermassen verfassten Note Nr. 1999 vom 20. Oktober 1993 zu bestätigen:  (zoals in Nr. I  Das Departement beehrt sich, der Botschaft bekanntzugeben, dass der Schweizerische Bundesrat dem Wortlaut ihrer Note seine Zustimmung erteilt hat. Die Note der Botschaft bildet so zusammen mit der vorliegenden Antwort eine am 1. Januar 1994 in Kraft tretende Vereinbarung zwischen der Schweizerischen Eidgenossenschaft und dem Königreich der Niederlande. Das Eidgenössische Departement für auswärtige Angelegenheiten benützt auch diesen Anlass, um die Königlich Niederländische Botschaft seiner ausgezeichneten Hochachtung zu versichern.    *An die Königlich*   *Niederländische Botschaft*   *Bern*    
