<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling tussen de Nederlandse en de Britse Regering houdende een overeenkomst betreffende douane-faciliteiten voor consulaire ambtenaren en lager diplomatiek personeel

### I  

BRITISH EMBASSY THE HAGUE No. 245 October 19, 1953. Your Excellency, On the instructions of Her Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom, I have the honour to address the following communication to Your Excellency. Subject to an assurance of reciprocity Her Majesty's Government are prepared to accord the customs privileges at present enjoyed by the diplomatic staff of the Netherlands Embassy in London to any Consuls-General, Consuls and Vice-Consuls (not being honorary consular officers) of the Netherlands in the United Kingdom, to clerks employed in the Netherlands Embassy in London, and to clerks employed on the staffs of the consular officers in question, provided, however, that only those persons shall be entitled to benefit who are not citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies, who are not engaged in private occupation for gain in the United Kingdom and who are permanent employees of their Government, or, if not permanent employees thereof, were not ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom at the time of their appointment to such diplomatic or consular post, and provided also that their appointments shall have been duly notified to Her Majesty's Government through the diplomatic channel with a view to the necessary steps being taken to ensure for them the special treatment which this arrangement contemplates. I have the honour to suggest that if an arrangement in this sense is acceptable to the Netherlands Government, this Note and Your Excellency's reply thereto in similar terms shall be regarded as placing on record the understanding reached between the two Governments concerning this matter, and that the arrangement shall come into force on the date on which the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands shall notify Her Majesty's Government that the required constitutional approval has been obtained. I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurance of my highest consideration. (sd.) NEVILE BUTLER  *His Excellency Mr. J. W. Beyen,*   *etc., etc., etc.*    

### II  

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS No. 128657 The Hague, 19 October, 1953. Sir, In receipt of Your Excellency's note of today's date we have the honour to inform you of the following: On a basis of reciprocity the Netherlands Government are prepared to accord the customs privileges at present enjoyed by the diplomatic staff of the British Embassy at The Hague to any Consuls-General, Consuls and Vice-Consuls (not being honorary consular officers) of the United Kingdom in the Netherlands, to clerks employed in the British Embassy at The Hague, and to clerks employed on the staffs of the consular officers in question, provided, however, that only those persons shall be entitled to benefit who are not Netherlands subjects, who are not engaged in private occupation for gain in the Netherlands and who are permanent employees of their Government, or, if not permanent employees thereof, were not ordinarily resident in the Netherlands at the time of their appointment to such diplomatic or consular post, and provided also that their appointments shall have been duly notified to the Netherlands Government through the diplomatic channel with a view to the necessary steps being taken to ensure for them the special treatment which this arrangement contemplates. We agree to the suggestion that Your Excellency's note and this reply shall be regarded as placing on record the understanding reached between the two Governments concerning the matter, and that the arrangement shall come into force on the date on which the Netherlands Government shall notify Her Britannic Majesty's Government that the required constitutional approval has been obtained. Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of our highest consideration. (sd.) J. LUNS. (sd.) J. W. BEYEN.  *His Excellency*   *Sir Nevile M. Butler,*   *Ambassador Extraordinary and*   *Plenipotentiary of Her Majesty the Queen*   *of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.*    
