<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Notawisseling houdende een administratief akkoord tussen de bevoegde Nederlandse en Hongaarse autoriteiten inzake de wederzijdse vrijstelling van motorrijtuigbelasting

### Nr.  I  

###EMBASSY OF THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC

30-3/1982. The Embassy of the Hungarian People's Republic presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and has the honour to inform the Ministry about the following. With reference to the negotiations held on April 20, 1982 in Budapest between the Delegations of Experts of the Ministry of Finance of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Ministry of Finance of the Netherlands, the Hungarian Authorities suggest the following: The Hungarian Authorities exempt on the basis of reciprocity passenger cars - including their trailers - which are registered in the Netherlands in respect of all taxes and charges relating to the ownership and/or use of these passenger cars in so far the staying of these cars in the Hungarian People's Republic does not exceed 60 days in a calendar year. The Dutch Authorities exempt on the basis of reciprocity passenger cars - including their trailers - which are registered in the Hungarian People's Republic in respect of all taxes and charges relating to the ownership and/or use of these passenger cars in so far the staying of these cars in the Netherlands does not exceed 60 days in a calendar year. These tax exemptions shall not affect the tolls levied at bridges, tunnels, etc. The reciprocity will be established on the day when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands confirms in a Verbal-Note that the competent Dutch Authorities agree with the content of the Verbal-Note of the Embassy of the Hungarian People's Republic. The exemption from taxes on the basis of reciprocity will be applied in both countries from the date of the exchange of notes, but not later than from the 1-st June 1982. The Embassy of the Hungarian People's Republic suggests, that this Note and the reply Note of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands constitute an agreement between the competent Hungarian and the Dutch Authorities. The Embassy of the Hungarian People's Republic avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands the assurance of its highest consideration. The Hague, May 28. 1982.  *Ministry of Foreign Affairs*   *of the Kingdom of the Netherlands*   *The Hague*    

### Nr.  II  

###THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

###THE HAGUE

Treaties Department DVE/VV-143762 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands presents its compliments to the Embassy of the Hungarian People's Republic and has the honour to confirm the receipt of the Verbal-Note of the Embassy dated 28 May 1982 Nr. 30-3/1982 which reads as follows.  (Zoals in Nr. I)  The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands has the honour to inform the Embassy of the Hungarian People's Republic, that the competent Dutch Authorities agree with the content of the above quoted Verbal-Note and confirms, that this exchange of Notes constitutes an agreement between the competent Hungarian and the Dutch Authorities. The Hague, 28 May 1982.  *To the Embassy of Hungary*   *at*   *The Hague*    
