<meta http-equiv='Content-Type' content='text/html; charset=utf-8' />

##Briefwisseling houdende een verdrag tussen de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en het Internationaal Agentschap voor Atoomenergie (IAEA) inzake de "Technical Meeting on Materials and Chemistry for Supercritical Water Cooled Reactors", 18-22 juli 2011 te Petten

### Nr.  I  

INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY Vienna, 24 March 2011 In reply please refer to: F1-TM-41430 Sir, I have the honour to inform you that the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) is planning to hold a Technical Meeting on Materials and Chemistry for Supercritical Water Cooled Reactors from 18 to 22 July 2011. The purpose of the meeting is to provide a platform for detailed presentations and technical discussions leading to exchange of results, the fostering of world-wide collaboration in research activities, improved communications between industry (utilities, vendors etc.), regulatory organizations and research organizations, and the review and updating of the science and engineering in the areas of materials and chemistry of supercritical water-cooled reactor concepts. Approximately 28 persons from 28 countries are expected to attend, as well as representative(s) from the IAEA. Informal discussions held with Mr Radek Novotny from the European Commission, (Joint Research Centre, Institute for Energy, P.O. Box 2, NI-1755 ZG Petten, The Netherlands, Telephone: 0031 224 565038, Fax: 0031 224 565641; E-Mail: Radek.Novotny@ec.europa.eu), have indicated that suitable premises and facilities could be made available in Petten. I have the honour to enquire whether your Government would wish to host this meeting and, if so, whether your Government would agree to make the following arrangements: 

1. The Government of the Netherlands (hereinafter referred to as the Government) will accord to the IAEA, its property, funds and assets, and to the officials of the IAEA and participants officially designated to attend the meeting in their official capacities, and to members of the immediate families of such persons, the privileges and immunities contained in the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which was accepted by the Government on 29 August 1963.  

2. The Government will accord to the officials and participants mentioned above every facility necessary for the performance of their functions in connection with the meeting, including entering, remaining in and leaving the Netherlands. The Government will issue any necessary visas as expeditiously as possible and, where the legislation of the Netherlands permits, free of charge. The Government, however, reserves the right to deny, irrespective of nationality, visas to individual participants for national security reasons. Annex A contains the list of Member States to be invited to participate in the meeting. The IAEA will inform the Government promptly of all persons officially designated to attend the meeting. The IAEA will also advise such persons to apply for visas, if necessary, in good time before the opening date of the meeting, and the Government is expected to issue such visas promptly so as to allow them to attend the meeting.  

3. The Government will facilitate customs formalities for the persons referred to above when they enter and leave the Netherlands.  

4. This Agreement will not imply any financial commitments for the Government.  

5. The Government will exercise reasonable care to ensure security on the premises where the meeting takes place and to ensure the safety of the persons mentioned in paragraph 1 above while they are on those premises. The Government will take whatever steps may be reasonable in the circumstances to ensure such security and safety, including such supervision of the premises as may be warranted.   Mr Andrej Zeman of the Division of Physical and Chemical Sciences has been appointed Scientific Secretary of the meeting. Should your Government wish to host this meeting, I would be grateful if you would inform me in writing of your Government’s agreement to the above enumerated points by 29 April 2011 so as to enable the Secretariat to proceed with timely arrangements. Accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration. MOHAMAD DAUD Deputy Director General Head of the Department of Nuclear Sciences and Applications  *For the DIRECTOR GENERAL*   *Enclosure:*   *Annex A: List of Member States to be invited*   *H. E. Mr Alphons Hamer*   *Ambassador*   *Resident Representative of The Netherlands to the International*   *Atomic Energy Agency*   *Opernring 5/7 <sup>th</sup> floor*   *1010 VIENNA*    

### Annex  A  

####List of Member States to be Invited

Technical Meeting on Materials and Chemistry for Supercritical Water Cooled Reactors, Petten, Netherlands  

*18-22 July 2011*  Argentina Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Canada China Czech Republic Finland France Germany Hungary India Italy Japan Mexico Netherlands Republic of Korea Romania Russian Federation Slovak Republic Slovenia South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Ukraine United Kingdom USA   

### Nr.  II  

PERMANENT MISSION OF THE NETHERLANDS TO THE UN Vienna, 19 May 2011 Re IAEA Technical Meeting on Materials and Chemistry for Supercritical Water Cooled Reactors, 18-22 July 2011 Sir, I have the honour to refer to your letter reference F1-TM-41430 of 24 March 2011, relating to an Agreement to be concluded between the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) concerning the Technical Meeting on Materials and Chemistry for Supercritical Water Cooled Reactors, which is scheduled to be held in Petten, the Netherlands, from 18 to 22 July 2011, which reads as follows:  (Zoals in Nr. I)  I am authorized by the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to state that it agrees to the proposals regarding the organization of the Technical Meeting. Further, I am authorized to state that the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands considers your letter and this reply as together constituting an Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the IAEA concerning the Technical Meeting on Materials and Chemistry for Supercritical Water Cooled Reactors, which shall enter into force on the date of this reply and shall remain in force for the duration of the Technical Meeting and for such additional period as is necessary for its preparation and winding up, the total duration of this Agreement, however, not to exceed one year. Please accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration. MARJOLIJN VAN DEELEN Counsellor Deputy Resident Representative  *Mr. Mohamad Daud*   *Deputy Director General*   *Head of the Department of Nuclear Sciences and Applications*   *Vienna International Centre*   *Vienna*    
